The party will be sent to a major port city to retrieve some information on the next mask. While there the city comes under quarantine and the PC's cannot leave.

Terror grips the city as disease and murder travel through the night. The evil cleric Malchor, from the marauders has come to give the city of Laribus the "blessing" of his god and retrieve the same info as the party. He sets up a hidden shrine and creates disease ridden zombies to later attack citizens in the street, all the while spreading more disease.

When he realizes the party is also in town he kidnaps the NPC Elan and sets the party up to be killed by his newest creation, disease created wolfweres. The party, with the aid of the city watch, manages to track the wolfweres back to Malchor's shrine and destroys the evil priest and his servants in a final battle.

The party having successfully gained the mask of abjuration make it back to the village of King's Reach without incident. They can spend the rest of the winter in the village, as welcome guests if they helped the innkeeper, or they can head back to Landover right away.

Either way, once they get back Charilus is anxious to examine the mask. He Identifies its properties for the players if they have not already. Elan convinces him that the PC's should hang on to the mask since one of them has likely bonded with it already anyway. Charilus then informs the group that he needs them to "run some errands" for him before they look for the next mask. By errands he means travel and research of course, so the party is off to the bustling port city of Laribus.

The errand is to give a scroll detailing the information that Charilus needs to the sage Fero. Fero, an old friend of Charilus, will then give the party the information they need to retrieve the next mask.

While en-route to Laribus the party will mostly travel on roads and encounter only the king's patrols, since this is civilized territory. However they could have 1 or 2 small side adventures, see <a href="wishes to visit her superiors and visit some old friends, she intends to stay with a fellow acolyte named Ileen.

Once they reach the city, they will probably spend some time exploring it and finding lodgings. While in the marketplace a strange incident happens. A man suddenly falls violently ill, collapses, and dies. The townspeople give the body a very wide berth and concerned PCs who ask discover that there have been incidents of disease spreading throughout the city.

The party is recommended an inn, and undoubtedly seeks out the sage Fero. Alas his shop, when they manage to find it, has been burned to the ground. A patrol of the city watch are checking the area. A constable Kangran will notice the party and come up to ask their business. After listening Kangran will explain that the building was set ablaze last night by arsonists probably concerned about the disease. He will further explain that Fero was found dead 2 days ago from the deadly disease that seems to be sweeping the city.

Suddenly one of the watch will call out to Kangran. The watchman has discovered 2 bodies in the alley, both dead of disease. As the watch members uncover the bodies both corpses rise up to attack them! Their is one round of automatic surprise during which one zombie will break the neck of one watchman and the other one clubs a man unconscious, pretend to roll dice for drama.

A combat will then break out between the watch, Kangran, and 4 1st level warriors, and the 2 plague zombies. The party may help of course, afterwards Kangran will thank them for their aid, ask where they are staying, and send someone to seek aid for his men. While waiting the man who was clubbed down begins to develop signs of the disease. Kangran has no knowledge of why these zombies are here but he feels it bodes ill.

The players are free to leave. If they can cure the wounded guards they will be very grateful, but if not a harried cleric will eventually show up and complain about not being able to keep up with the spreading disease in the city. At this point the city is quarantined by royal order, no one leave or enters until the disease is destroyed. The party will find this out if they decide to leave, from the gate guards, or if they decide to stay and help, from the local gossip.

Several days pass, and the party is unable to leave the city. In fact a curfew comes into effect the next night preventing nighttime travel on the streets. Panic grips the city as more plague zombies attack citizens at random. After about 3 days The constable Kangran comes again to see the party, he asks if they know a woman by the name of Ileen or Elan. When the party says yes they do he asks them to explain their relationship, all the while with a saddened and concerned look.

He tells them their has been an incident and perhaps they should come see for themselves. Assuming they accompany Kangran to the scene, the house of Ileen is currently being guarded by grim looking members of the watch. Inside the house is awash in blood, it covers the floors and walls. Signs of a struggle are obvious but no bodies. When asked Kangran states "the place was found just like this with no corpses err…. victims at all." He asks the party f they know who might have done such a thing or if either had any enemies, award XP if they guess that Malchor might be behind this.

After they answer he tells them that this was not the only incident, several local priests were murdered last night. They were coming to cure a noble patron and when they arrived at the house, no one was alive but an ambush of plague zombies awaited them. 3 were slain before they could destroy them.

After Kangran is finished with them the party will likely conduct their own investigation, unfortunately without clout or superior divination magic they will turn up nothing. You might consider throwing in an encounter with plague zombies, an opportunity to play up the hysteria and fear of disease that the citizens have.

Finally after a long day they must hurry back to the inn to avoid getting caught out after curfew. When arriving they find that they are late for the nightly dinner but the innkeeper will still serve them anyway. Unfortunately they have arrived too late to get soup, its all gone, but there is plenty for dinner.

Though the innkeeper expresses worry that food might become short if the plague lasts much longer. The innkeeper gets the party their drinks and rushes off to get them food. At this point a man drinking his soup in a loud fashion begins to choke and gasp. Many of the inn's patrons fear the plague and edge away from the man. Sure enough he begins to wheeze and collapse. As this happens several other patrons also begin to get violently sick. Some vomit, others just collapse quickly or choke, but all begin to collapse.

The players will be trying to help the sick or perhaps just getting out of the way at this point. Suddenly the first man stricken will begin to change. He will scream, and shift to a half wolf/half man like form, classic wolf man. He will attack wildly though not other sick individuals. The other sick individuals, all who drank the soup, shift into plague weres and attack all within the inn., This includes the PC party, what am I saying… especially the PC party.

The PCs will try to hold out but there are too many, 20 plague weres, and they have the same invulnerability to non-magical weapons that common werewolves do. Eventually the party will be forced to retreat, most likely up the stairs. Though if they can come up with a way to clear a path to the front door let them.

Eventually the inn will be set fire, the plague weres will finally leave at the last second. They will scurry off into the darkness in small groups, killing people through out the rest of the night before going to ground in the hidden shrine.

The party, wounded, exhausted, and nearly friendless, will be trying to survive the night while being hunted by small groups of plague weres. The may also fear that they have been infected, which they may be.

The city watch will have its hands full this night and may attack the players by nervous accident or for violating the curfew. Eventually they will be brought in for questioning during the night or the next day when they show themselves.

They will not be treated like prisoners but they will be asked to give up their weapons, captain Kangran having dealt with them in the past will come in to see them. Kangran will ask the party for their version of the events and mention that the few surviving eyewitnesses mentioned the wolf creatures trying to kill the party specifically.

Kangran mentions that so far they have had no reports of individuals killed by the plague weres coming back to life like the plague zombies. However some of those bitten have become sick and may yet turn. These people are being given a higher priority by the overworked priests curing diseases. All the bodies at the inn burned so no one from there appears to have turned.

Kangran will ask the party for information and perhaps recommendations. Eventually he will decide that, for their own good, they should stay at the watch headquarters, i.e. in protective custody. The players may protest but there likely is not much they can do about it. They will be given nice comfy cells to sleep in and brought food of the same quality the guards eat. Kangran will apologize but mention that he is doing it to protect them.

Unfortunately plans never seem to work the way we want them. That night the weres come out killing anyone they come across but looking for the PC's especially. Eventually the station is attacked by a group of 15 plague weres, Malchor has created more in another tavern. The watch officers will be unprepared to be attacked in their home base and will be mowed down like wheat. The players must free themselves and get to their weapons and fight, escape or die. If they cannot escape the cell Kangran can return and let them out so they can help, "better to die fighting than in a cell" he states. By the time the weres reach the players, and Kangran perhaps, there are 10 left.

The party can fight all the creatures or, if you feel this is too tough, hold out till reinforcements come. Eventually the creatures are driven off or killed. The next day will bring a planning session involving the players, Kangran, some other watch officials, a member of the guild of churches, and a representative of the king.

The tired looking priest will state that the guild has discovered through divinations that a priest of (insert evil god of disease and poisons here) has caused all this chaos and death. The king's man will be somewhat disbelieving that this huge death toll can be the cause of a single man. An argument over what to do will break out. Eventually Kangran or the players must bring up the obvious solution which is to use the party as bait.

At this point Kangran will tell all he knows of the situation and allow the players to decide if they will help in this way. Assuming they agree, if not they can be forced into it with threats, a plan will be decided on to clear out the market place early, and bring the party there just before dark. Well prepared groups of soldiers and city watch will be set up to defeat the plague weres but those that flee will be followed back to their lair so they can all be wiped out. Seems simple!

Sure enough the plan is put into action. The party is placed in the middle of the market place with nearly 60 warriors between the city watch and the local soldiers hiding nearby. These warriors are prepared with oil,fire, and what silver or magical weapons could be found. 2 low level wizards(3rd) that owe the watch a debt have also been set up to provide some spells.

However Malchor has both luck and good planning on his side. The good planning comes from the fact that he knows the watch is on to him so he supplements the 15 plague weres that are attacking with 20 plague zombies, nearly everything he has. His good luck comes from the fact that 6 of the local watch have been infected already but do not know it. When the first plague weres come onto the scene to attack these 6 officers, all in different groups, will change and attack their comrades, sowing confusion and disorder.

Runners will bring news to the bait group, which consists of the PC party with Kangran as a bodyguard, of the attack and the problems. They will not have much time to consider this because a small group of plague weres break through to attack them as another group of plague zombies crawls out of the sewers to aid the plague weres!

The bait group will be attacked by a group of 5 plague weres which are aided by 6 plague zombies 3 rounds later. 1 of the plague weres will run off after being badly wounded, the party can follow it or wait around for others to help. Kangran of course suggests following but brings a runner with them so he can tell others the location of the lair.

Tracking the wounded plague were will be easily enough, it should be wounded badly enough that it is unaware of being followed. Eventually it will turn down a dead end alley. Watching the were, the party will see it move a pile of garbage to uncover a hole in the walls. This hole drops down underground.

Kangran will curse at this point. He tells the party that the old catacombs under the city go in a dozen different directions. He sends the runner off to tell the others where to look, he turns to the party and tells them "Well we can wait for help but we may lose him and those catacombs go all over the city. Damn governors liked to be buried away from the citizens."

If they wait for help they of course lose the were. The party will undoubtedly decide to go after it themselves. If the party is too wounded you can have a few watch members of 1st level show up to help or even a 3rd level cleric to heal wounds. Entering the catacombs is easy enough, move past the garbage and drop about 6' into the tunnels.

Upon entering the tunnels system the party sees an intersection of 4 tunnels. Allow them to make track rolls or simply listen to figure out which tunnel the plague were is moving down.

The plague were will move down through a series of passages that become somewhat damp but not really wet, more like slimy. Eventually the players can hear the loud chanting of Malchor. As they get closer there is a glyph of warding in the tunnel that will trigger, unless checking for traps somehow. The glyph will do fire damage of 7d4 to whoever triggered it and anyone in 5'. At this point Malchor stops chanting. He is in a 30' x 30' room at the end of one of the tunnels.

He calls to the party to come out, if he hears casting he begins his own spells. If not when they enter he gloats at his superiority and asks if they were looking for their lady fair. Pointing to an altar the party notices the wriggling form of Elan, all tied up and ready for sacrifice.

Malchor is not alone however and calls for his minions to attack. Besides the badly wounded plague were, he has 4 plague zombies left. As he sets these on the party he will cast spells to aid him and his minions, like prayer and aid, or offensive spells, like hold person, command, etc..

Once engaged in to hand to hand he will cast a poison spell on his first opponent. Malchor will not retreat, he has nowhere to run really. Out of spite he will try to kill Elan if he believes he will lose the battle as in typical villain fashion. When malchor and his creatures are well and truly defeated Elan can be freed. Elan, who is somewhat hysterical from her captivity, will eventually tell the party that Malchor bragged of killing the sage Fero and stole the information concerning the masks.

Sure enough the books of the sage Fero are collected here along with some stolen goods that Malchor kept for himself. Kangran will insist that the stolen goods be returned but will allow the party to keep whatever information they want from the dead sage's books.

Kangran will also insist that the party stay around for a few days to help explain the situation to the various officials and guild masters who all want to know what happened. When all is said and done they have a close ally now in Captain Kangran. Also the merchant's guild, under directions from the king's representatives, will hold a celebration to honor the party members for their efforts and reward them.

Each party member will be given a silver necklace with a gold pendant representing the coat-of arms of the city, value of 300 gp. but here in Laribus the value would be closer to 500. The players will be somewhat known in the city for some time and will likely be given large discounts and welcome gifts by those who appreciate their accomplishments. But alas there is more work to do.