The party leaves the city of Laribus and journeys to Landover meet with Charilus. The trip is mostly uneventful but on the third day out the party has to maneuver around an overturned turnip wagon. When the party is only a few hours out of Landover they run into an ambush of Baron Ganth's men.

The ambush is laid out quite simply, a scout is watching the road for the parties progress from a nearby hill. When he spies a likely group he signals the ambush party and rides down to them. When the players comes around a bend in the road they see its blocked off up ahead by a dozen armed men on horseback, including Dylan. They do not have weapons out but look hostile, Dylan assumes the party will just surrender in the face of opposition.

When the party rides closer, say within 50 yards, they may notice a group of 6 crossbow men slightly concealed in a copse of trees about 20 yards off the road. They are slightly forward of Dylan's position.

None of the men will attack till Dylan gives the order, unless the players attack first that is. Dylan will call out to the party to surrender themselves and any of the masks. When they refuse he gets angry and threatens them with death, then of course he orders the attack.

The horsemen will wait for the crossbow men to fire if possible, then they draw swords and charge the party. Dylan will attempt to engage whoever has insulted him the most or whoever has a visible mask on. Dylan will retreat almost as soon as he is wounded but will not order his men to retreat till the fight is obviously lost. If unable to get away Dylan will beg for his life promising to intervene on their behalf with the baron.

The Ambush Party:

Horsemen: 11-2nd level warriors, AC 4 (AC 16 3E), hp 14 (hp 20 3E). Each equipped with long sword, chainmail, shield, and a riding horse. Each warrior has 2d4 gp. on him

Crossbow Men: 6-2nd level warriors AC 7 (AC 13 3E) hp 12 (hp 16 3E). Each equipped with studded leather armor, short sword, light crossbow, case with 15 bolts. Each warrior also has 2d4 gp.

See NPCs for Dylan's Stats: He is mounted on a light war-horse. Nearby is the ambush party's camp, various tents, cooking pots etc., are all here. There are 4 noncombatant attendants, 0 levels. If coerced they will reveal that Dylan keeps a strongbox in his tent to pay the men. They also mention they have been here several days. Inside Dylan's tent and under his cot is a locked strongbox (key on Dylan) containing the payroll of 100 gp. After this incident the players will ride into Landover without further incident.

Upon arriving in Landover the players meet with Charilus. He listens to their tale of the adventure in Laribus and the ambush outside of town with an impatient attitude. Elan chides him for his callous attitude. He responds with exasperation stating "How can I be concerned since you obviously survived and made it here intact! BAH!"

With that taken care of, to Charilus's satisfaction only, the wizard wishes to see the books the party has brought back. He eagerly begins to catalog and sort them. After a bit he stops to explain that "This may take a few hours or perhaps a day or two". The players expenses at the local inn will be taken care of by Charilus. During this lull any romantic plots concerning Elan or any other NPC/PC might be moved forward.

Eventually Charilus will excitedly call the party together. He has pieced together part of the lost journal of Edmund Vargas. Vargas once owned one or more of the Masks it seems but became somewhat fearful of something concerning them. He bought passage on a ship to dispose of the mask or masks, unfortunately the journal is incomplete. It seems perhaps that Vargas may have destroyed the parts that state the actual location of the masks.

Charilus tells the party that while we do not know Vargas's final destination we do know where he stopped during his journey. He supposedly sailed to the port city of Land's Edge in neighboring country. There he visited a cartographer (map maker). This happened only 65 years ago, perhaps the map maker kept records or he is still alive. Either way, this lead must be checked out.

Also, it has become obvious that others are seeking the masks and know of Charilus's involvement, with all these ambushes and such.

"So therefore, We will move my myself and my goods to the city of Harken, then you shall book passage to Land's Edge."

So the characters along with Omar are put to work packing the goods the mage deems necessary to set himself up in Harken. After another 2 days of this a wagon is bought and the trip to Harken is begun. The players will have Elan, Omar, and Charilus with them so any side encounters involving combat would be unadvised for the GM. But this side adventure might be appropriate. Make note however that Charilus is disinclined to help others or be bothered with doing anything he does not want to do.

After about a week of travel, the players finally reach the city of Harken. By this point they are weary of both the incessant chattering of Omar and the superior and constantly displeased Charilus. The wizard sets up lodging for them all in a local inn and sets about looking for a house to rent. He instructs the party to find a suitable boat to take them to Land's Edge. So the party is left to their own devices while both Omar and Elan accompany Charilus to search for housing.

Time to encourage paranoia!!!! During their down time encourage the party to explore the city and buy a few things with their hard won gold. Have a merchant offer a player a unique item, examples orcish war banners, inscribed axes of the Ironheart dwarven clan, a scale from a dragon (fake most likely), some interesting jewelry, a stuffed baboon, etc.. While they are negotiating for an item, tell one of the players that he finds a small note in his pouch. The note reads:

"We all hide our true intentions behind masks of sorts. We need to meet, you and I, perhaps over a drink? The Leaking Sieve …tonight, 8 p.m. no violence necessary." The note is signed Blackthorn.

Asking around the player will find out that The Leaking Sieve is a dockside tavern. If the player or players go to the tavern, it is filled with different people, mostly swarthy sailors types, foreigners, or dock workers. At one table is a well dressed half-elven male. As the players walk into the tavern he watches them for their intentions. He appears to be unarmed and un-armored

If the players start a fight he will defend himself and since he has paid off the owners already the bouncers will assist him while someone calls the watch. Likely the players would lose or be forced to retreat if they start a fight here, make up enough bouncers to beat them for their lack of patience. If the players act civilized, so will he. Blackthorn presents a refined manner and enjoys it in others. He will make some short pleasantries, "How was your trip?" "What do you think of Harken?" "Try the imported dwarvish lager, I hear its full bodied."

Eventually he will come around to the point. He is in the employ of Baron Ganth and here to offer the players a reward for turning over the masks they posses and whatever information they have concerning the other masks. Blackthorn is quite willing to sit and discuss whatever the players want also. Possible subjects of conversation:

The Baron- "A boorish man but he has paid for my services, so here I am."

Dylan- "An incompetent fool who only knows methods of brute force to get what he wants."

Shar's Marauders- "Fellow mercenaries, most incompetent morons like that cleric fellow, but Shar has some class as well as competence." "Also no they are not employees of the Baron, I don't know who they work for."

Himself- "I am no one of consequence, I am here as a simple procurer really, nothing more".

Blackthorn really does not care at this point about the mask's abilities or what anyone else will do with them, he is just here to do a job. He is authorized to offer a large sum of gold but lets assume the players say no. He will ask if they are sure, then sigh, say "very well, we will have to do things the hard way." He will look at the concerned looks and drawn weapons from the PCs, he will then appear insulted or perhaps hurt. He would not think of ruining a social occasion and will leave them now once he pays for the drinks and such.

Following Blackthorn will be difficult, the bouncers will stop anyone at the door for a few minutes to give him time to leave. Those who use magic to follow will be in for a surprise, since he can see them with his lenses of invisibility detection. He will duck down an alley and hide. If a lone PC stumbles across him he will ambush them, but will try not to kill them this first time. Leaving the unconscious body as a warning.

After their meeting with Blackthorn the players will want to arrange for a boat fairly quickly. Finding a boat going to Land's Edge is difficult, it is not a major port, or on a major route. Eventually the players will come across a galley named "The Merry Ann" run by a Captain Pectas. Pectas will take the players to Land's Edge during their cargo run. The financial arrangements will of course be made by Charilus, so the players will direct Pectas to him and begin to move on board. Before the ship leaves Charilus gives the party several potions of water breathing, one for each, "Just in case you need them." he says.

After arrangements have been made, Pectas will introduce the players to his crew and show them to their quarters. They will have to sleep 2 to a cabin with only 3 cabins available, if more than 6 party members they will have to go 3 or more.

After settling in they take off. The journey to Land's Edge is mostly simple, you might throw in a side encounter. Also when they get within a week from Land's Edge, the ship is caught in a harsh storm and some things are damaged. Captain Pectas wants to put in at Land's Edge to resupply and fix up the ship.

Once they reach Land's Edge the longboat will be put down, since their is no large port here, and the players along with the shore crew will go to the pier, see Land's Edge area 2. When they reach the pier they notice that their is no activity, no one is around. The sailors seem to think this is odd but shrug it off, they tie off the longboat and leave 2 sailors to guard it. The rest of the shore crew accompany the party into the town.

Entering Land's Edge the players notice no one has come to greet them, the town has an abandoned look about it. The sailors become spooked at the eerie silence. Checking some nearby buildings the players notice that they are all empty, though in a few their is some signs of struggle and perhaps old blood.

The first sign of life is when a flock of birds suddenly takes flight in the distance. This scares some of the sailors, who are then taunted by the others. Unfortunately the flock, which is heading this way, are not birds. Anyone watching it will notice the flock is coming towards them, and that they are Stirges! 20 stirges, see Land's Edge area 4, attack the party and crew members. They do not retreat from combat but leave if they fill up on blood.

After the players have been away from the docks area for a bit allow them to hear some strangled cries of pain and terror coming from back towards the docks. By the time they arrive the 2 guards are gone though the severed arm of 1 guard close at hand. A trail of blood leads into the water next to the pier. Also the longboat has been damaged, its bottom kicked in by appearances.

No signs of the attackers are nearby but some signs, the blood trail, the drag marks, a few wet spots, give the impression they came from and returned to the sea. The players will probably want to signal the ship to pick them up. Eventually the ship will spot signal attempts, fires or spell effects probably, by the party or after a long delay they will send out the other longboat. This is the only other longboat on the ship.

The players will barely be able to see the boat dropped into the water and its crew paddling towards shore, unfortunately the Laceodons attack the boat well before it gets close to shore, but out of bow range, too bad. The Laceodons swarm the boat, knocking crew members over the side and paralyzing all within reach. Very quickly all the crewmen are dragged under to be paralyzed, drowned, or just clawed to death.

If the players think to help out mention that the longboat is over a mile away and they will not arrive in time. Those who have the water breathing potions could use them but 8 Laceodons should quickly overwhelm them in the water. After the loss of the 2nd longboat Captain Pectas will be unable and unwilling to send another rescue team after the group. He can only hope they manage to reach his ship safely. He will wait as long as possible, 2 weeks tops, before being forced to continue his journey.

The players at this point will wish to search the town for another way off with possibly another boat. The matter of food will be brought up also. The crew assumed they would not need to bring supplies, and most likely neither did the party. After exploring the Land's Edge and finding no real aid the demon Castilus will make his first attempt to herd the party towards the castle.

After exploring one of the sites mentioned in the town write up, someone in the group will notice a large arrow drawn on the ground, it points north toward the general direction of the castle. Right after this the party will be attacked by a group from Castilus's summoning ability. These groups are here to herd the party towards the castle and whittle down the numbers that make it there. Castilus only needs one living being to set him free.

I recommend targeting the NPCs mostly, for now that is. As the summoned creatures die the players will notice the corpses and their belongings vanish. They may suspect illusion magic, go ahead roll saves for them if they ask, then say "nope its still trying to cut your head off."

Castilus will try to heard the party to the castle with arrows scratched in the dirt and monster groups to attack and herd them. Recommendation- use monster groups with distance attacks to encourage the party to get under cover. Oh and use the less frightening looking ones for now, save the ugly nasties for at the castle. Eventually the players will have to head to the castle once they discover there are no working boats to be found and that they won't be left in peace to make one. However Castilus still won't be satisfied, he wants the party weakened or nearly destroyed before they reach him. Once the party finally heads to the castle see Land's Edge Castle write up for the details there.

When the players finally head to the castle (See Land's Edge Castle) they may be assuming that they are headed to safety from the monsters hunting them, well they are dead wrong. Once they reach the castle Castilus will attempt to herd them toward the summoning room. Remember that Castilus is restricted to 1 summoning a turn with a duration of 3 turns. This means he can only have 3 summoned groups of creatures at any time.

The players will be able to give themselves some breathing room if they can ward the door to the summoning room or if they can find a way to bar themselves into an area. Remember to kill NPCs before you seriously go after the party, they will be running short of resources and warm bodies, while the summoned groups continue to show up. The castle has a few denizens but these are all unintelligent creatures that will not respond to Castilus telepathic commands.

If the players reach Castilus's room he will be waiting with an illusion spell up to make himself seem friendly and helpful. He will take the form of an angelic being, GM's choice, and implore the party to set him free so that he can stop the curse that has overtaken the area. He will tell nothing but lies, if asked about Serek's obvious corpse, he will blame the wizard for the curse he claims affects the town.

He will finally use his illusions to conjure large piles of treasure in a desperate attempt to get the players to release him. Failing all this he will claim to be able to answer whatever questions they might have…if they release him first. In the end if the players release him they must fight or be killed. Castilus has no fear of death since this is not his true form but a manifestation.

If the players figure out he is a liar they must seal the door and stop any returning minions from breaking the seal to stop Castilus attacks on them. The information on the Island of Vigilance is in the wizard Serek's diary. Once Castilus is destroyed or sealed off the undead in the town and castle go to their final rest and the remaining summoned creatures vanish. The party will be able to construct flimsy rowboats with some work over the course of a few days. Remember that Captain Pectas has a schedule to keep and will sail The Merry Annafter 2 weeks of waiting. See chapter 4d for details on the boat and crew. Any surviving members of the shore party will be forever grateful to the party for their rescue.