The players have become captives of the pirate queen Black Lily and her ally the necromancer Scathe. One of the players may have been allowed to stay out of the hold if he has given her an oath of honor on the lives of the rest of the party. If Lily has found such a character she will be attracted to him and make him become her lover. If he refuses she will hint that she might then kill his friends if she felt slighted. She will go to lengths to have the player be seen by other prisoners as her lover. This is so that he will be weakened by their hatred for him and will have to turn to her. Remember that she is evil and enjoys making others suffer at times. She will offer the player a position on her crew, though she does not mean it initially. She will offer him wealth and of course herself. If spurned she she will become threatening or even violent, but is quick to cool if properly placated.

During all this the ship will sail away from the temple. Having plundered The Merry Ann (Chapter 4d) Lily's crew sets it a fire and sails eastward on their own boat. Scathe will return after this time after reading the notes the players have from Charilus and questioning any dead companions, speak with dead spell, or perhaps the crew if no players have died. He now desires the masks for their abilities would supplement his own.

By chance Scathe knows of The Isle of Eternal Vigilance and was sailing in that direction. His only information concerning the place is that an item kept there was an item of powerful necromantic power. He surmises that it is the Mask of Necromancy and desires it for himself. In the mean time he has started the bonding process with the Mask of Conjuration.

Before they reach the island he will have completed the bonding process. During this time the players in the hold have no real chances for freedom, they are well enough and are being fed much to Captain Pectas surprise. He believes that some worse fate must await them at the island. The crew will be filled with hate at the player who accepts Lily's offer unless the other players can convince them that it is a ruse or perhaps forced upon him. Those who have been wounded will heal naturally but casters will have no way to regain spells.

The island is reached 15 days later.

The players (as captives) have reached The Island of Eternal Vigilance. Nearing the island they can see the wreckage of another ship, sunk close to the shoreline. The name on the boat is The Sea Flower. The a few of the pirates will remember the ship as a trading vessel that disappeared without a trace approximately 30 years ago.

The island is small, only about 3 miles across. The ship will be unable to approach due to the rocky coast line. Even the longboat will have problems due to the frequency of the rocks.

The island appears to lift up out of the water and is surrounded on all sides by high cliffs. Only one possible mooring spot exists and astute players will see the wreckage of a previous longboat near that spot. Lily will circle the island first looking for the best place to land. A large temple-like building can be seen near the middle of the island and the cliff edges seem to be dotted by large statues all looking out to sea.

After finding the landing area a discussion will occur as to who is going. Most of the pirates, being crude and superstitious, will not wish to go. Black Lily will tolerate no disobedience of course and may make an example of one of the crew. It will eventually be decided that the players will go since they seem capable and the crew of The Merry Ann are hostages for their continued behavior. The necromancer Scathe will stay out of the mission claiming he needs to study "the masks" further to unlock their powers. Black Lily will finally decide that the landing group will be: herself, the players, and 12 pirate crewman.

Once this is all settled, Scathe will insist that any players he has turned undead go too. Since they are expendable and completely dominated by his will. Finally after all the arguing the longboat sets off. The landing is rough due to the rocks and the if the players check they will see that the sunk longboat seems to have been burned. When they disembark they will be greeted by the sight of one the island's guardians in its inert form.

The guardians resemble a large (8') stone man in an ancient style of dress. He appears to be scanning the horizon as if watching for something. If checked, the statues radiate magic (abjuration and enchantment). They are extremely hard and someone could demolish it but they risk damaging their own weapons. The stone man weighs nearly 600 lbs. and appears to have no value as treasure. The pirates will be nervous of the statues and will not go near them.

Past the statue the remains of a small trail leads through the rocks as do two old corpses. Both appear to have died from stab wounds and been dragged to this spot. Their clothing is mostly rags. With some work it can be determined that the decomposed bodies were sailors of some type, possible from the sunk ship in the harbor.

The players have discovered the island, some magical statues, and a few corpses. The pirates are nervous, but nothing else is left to do but press on to the building.

The island is rocky with very few plants and no real animal life to speak of. It is a desolate place, with no food or shelter except perhaps the building in the middle . The rocky ground makes walking a painful course but unavoidable. Ahead the party can see more small cliffs that will have to be navigated.

Note: If the players wish to ambush the pirates here they may but the hostages on board the pirate ship will suffer and the players have no other way off the island but that ship. Also using Black Lily as a hostage will not gain them an advantage either. Plenty of others will take her place if she dies.

The trip up to the temple is uneventful, more statues can be seen across the area of the island as if placed haphazardly, all of them look out toward the sea.

As they cross the treacherous ground near the temple they can see it is made of a different stone then the rocks that cover the ground around them. The building itself is 15' tall and 190' long. It makes everyone somewhat uncomfortable to approach it.

The party has retrieved The Mask of Necromancy from the temple but has unknowingly triggered the islands guardians to life. Exiting the temple will be no problem till they reach the main doors. There they will encounter the first of the islands guardian golems (see Island of Eternal Vigilance for details on the golems).

This creature, like all the others, seeks to 1st kill all party members and 2nd return the mask to its resting place. However it (they) will attack anyone holding the mask first in an attempt to retrieve it. Black Lily will of course be holding the mask initially but will pawn it off onto a party member to hold once the golems intentions become obvious. When the party defeats the first golem, smashing it to rubble they will notice that it begins to roll back together-regenerating. Once the creature reached 50% hit points it can continue the battle or begin to slowly follow the party. It will also become obvious that the other golems on the island are headed toward the party albeit… at a slow pace.

A suggestion will be made "To run for the boat!" However, the party must still make its way over the treacherous ground that they climbed to come here. They will encounter new golems twice more during their descent. When they finally reach stable ground and can look for the longboat they will see that the golems from the islands edges have also come to life and several(6) are blocking the path to the boat.

If willing to risk a jump from a cliff (60'-100' height) they can reach the water but otherwise must fight their way through. One possibility would be to give the mask to someone who would then lead the golems away from the boat. Black Lily will suggest this course of action if no players do. She will suddenly prefer to live rather than steal the mask. None of the pirates will volunteer of course, only a player might be noble enough to make this decision. If someone does try this action it will work. The golems follow and attack someone with the mask before any others.

Those who make a run to the boats may still have to duck 1 or 2 golems, DM's discretion here. The player who has decided to play bait may be able to make it back to the boat or perhaps dive into the ocean. The golems cannot be tricked by invisibility or illusions but if anyone makes it off the island they cannot and will not pursue. If the mask itself is taken away, then the golems begin to revert back to un-living stone and walk back to their assigned places on the cliff shores.

In the longboat the group will wait off shore, at the pirate queen's insistence, for the person who has the mask to rejoin them before heading back to the Tempest. But all is not safe yet for no crew can be seen aboard the pirate ship as the longboat returns.

The players have escaped from the island with The Mask of Necromancy but still have other foes to contend with.

While they were gone the Necromancer Scathe made his move. He killed and animated most of the pirate crew and forced the rest into the crew quarters.

Note: Scathe must keep a few crew members alive because he doesn't know how to sail the ship properly. Also Scathe will not cast any fire based spells since he knows that burning down the ship is a death sentence for him as well.

Scathe has hidden undead he has created in spots all over the ship, he intends to use his Consciousness Skip spell to attack the returning shore party and take the mask from them. His first attempt will be when the party approaches the pirate ship in the long boat.

The first warning the party will have, that there is a problem, is when a zombie, with scathe inside it, placed at the ballista fires at them! He will only get 1 shot at the party before they are too close.

They will be unable to make out the fact that person firing the ballista is undead. As they approach close to the ship they will see several bodies, 6 in total, floating in the water near the boat. If they approach without precautions the bodies will suddenly move to attack the party. They will attempt to pull party members off the boat. After 1 round another zombie will surface, containing Scathe, and will cast a fireball spell at the longboat. This spell will automatically destroy the boat and throw all aboard into the water.

Note: Scathe himself is unharmed by the destruction of a ridden zombie so will not care if he is in the blast radius. If still functional he will continue to cast spells to hinder the party so that the zombies in the water can pull them under to drown them.

After the zombies are dealt with the surprised party will head for the boat. As they attempt to climb up the sides 2 zombies will drop large pieces of metal down on the party, spare pulleys used for rigging. Pick targets at random, those climbing will be unable to use dexterity bonuses and the zombies will have a bonus of 2 to hit, from higher position and hindrance.

Each dropped piece of metal will cause damage of 2d6 and will force a DEX check (DC 15) or fall back to the water. It will take 2 rounds for a non or lightly armored character to climb up,3 rounds if in medium weight armor, and 4 rounds if heavily armored. Characters failing a STR check (DC 5) must add 1 round to their climbing rate.

Those first reaching the top must deal with the 2 zombies. Fighting while clinging to the side of the ladder will mean using only 1 hand and forces the characters, maximum of 2, to take a -2 to attack rolls. Tumbling might allow a character to get up past the zombies (DC 25).

As soon as a character touches the main deck more zombies come to join the fight. There are a total of 15 more scattered around the deck. After 1 round of combat with these creatures Scathe while inhabit one and attempt cast a hold person spell on someone engaged with zombies, so they may be automatically slain.

Meanwhile any characters that have been transformed into undead will be taken control of by Scathe. He will command them to slay the party and they will be unable to resist. Hopefully the party will have left any characters transformed in this way back in the water. After casting hold person spell Scathe will cast any damage spells that will not destroy his zombies. Once they are gone he will feel free to cast area effects spells. If the body scathe is in is destroyed he will jump to one of the zombie manning a ballista. He will then turn it towards the deck and use it on the players directly. Targeting those with anti-undead abilities first.

Once the deck area is clear the party will want to proceed below decks, signs of battle are everywhere. The floor is slick with blood but no bodies are to be found. If the players approach room 10, the quartermasters hold, they can see the room has been broken into and all weapons and armor are gone.

As they come into this area a zombie inhabited by Scathe will come out of the the galley in area 12. It will burst out of the galley door and cast magic missile at a random target. If it survives long enough it continues in this fashion till destroyed.

Cargo Hold:

15. All surviving crew members, 15 in total have been locked in here. So have the 5 remaining members of the Merry Ann's crew. They will be unwilling to face the undead. They will give details of the battle with the necromancer. They have no weapons and quite a few are wounded.

18. As the players progress through the area 18 more zombies will stumble out to attack. Scathe will inhabit one body and attempt to cast spells as long as possible. He will flee the body before it is killed and will begin to cast summon spells through the Mask of Conjuration. He will begin summoning creatures into the hallway outside his room in an attempt to keep the party out.

He will have the mask begin casting a lesser planer binding spell (for 2E the spell is summon elemental) Regardless of the edition of D&D used it will take him 10 rounds to complete the spell and summon a water elemental. Choose a size that is very challenging to the party. All the other preparations to trap the being have been completed. It will fail the save to serve Scathe and will obey his commands.

Note: Remember that summon spells from the mask are always for maximum effect and the creatures summoned are by the casters choice not random

22. Scathe will be located here. He will be attempting to have the mask cast summon elemental (2E) or lesser planar binding (3E). Scathe will brag of this fact and attempt to keep the characters at bay with a wall of force spell to block off half of the cabin. Players must become inventive to reach him in time. possibilities include going back up top and casting or attacking him through the porthole, cutting through the wall in the next room or the floor underneath him, or dispelling the wall of force.

If the characters can kill Scathe then the summoning will stop automatically, unless you feel they haven't been challenged enough then by all means throw an uncontrolled, summoned water elemental of the appropriate type at them.

Once the necromancer Scathe is dead, the summoned creatures will disappear and any zombies left will become inert. Those characters who may have been under Scathe's control are now free-willed but still undead.

The party may decide to take the pirate ship from the pirates but you should inform them that without skills to pilot the ship they will never leave the island without being crushed on the rocky shoals that surround it.

Black Lilly is feeling grateful however. She is overjoyed to be alive and free of Scathe's power. Once her crew are set free, and Scathe's treasure is seized, Lily orders that the ale be broken out and a huge party to commence. She treats the players as companions instead of prisoners and, once slightly drunk, even offers to let them and the remaining crew of the Merry Ann go.

Sometime after the party, when in the midst of a vicious hangover she will remember this promise or more likely have to be reminded of it. She will be irritable initially but will eventually give in. She will even let the players have all their goods, and more importantly all the masks. She will try very hard to convince any player who became her lover to stay on. If he chooses not to sail away with her, she will pout, make some vague threats but will eventually give in.

She will demand a token of some sort from him. If he does not give her something of sufficient value or beauty she will go through his things to find something that pleases her.

Note: This might be a good opportunity to relieve the players of wealth or magic items that you think might be too powerful.

When all is said and done she drops the party, along with Captain Pectas and his 4 remaining crewmen on the shore of a neighboring kingdom. She sends them in the longboat with a crew and places them near a road so they might journey to a port town and book passage home from there.