After several weeks in the Goblins Hold Mountains, the characters are lost. They have seen no sign of any civilized beings for days and definitely no signs of their destination. They are climbing a steep ridge, as they come over the top they are delighted to find that this mountain top is a flat topped mesa. There is some plant life growing here and the rocky protrusions are not too steep. After a few minutes of exploring around they can see movement in the distance. Peering that way they can spot a large group of individuals (no details at this distance). The wind carries sounds of weeping voices and occasional pleas of mercy.

As the characters approach they can see a ragged group of about 20 being menaced by some goblins with wolves. Looks to be dozen or so goblins and wolves, exact amounts are 15 goblins and 11 wolves. The ragged group is huddled together while the goblins seem to be torturing or killing 1 of their number. A group of 4 goblins has surrounded 1 of the dwarves on the ground. The goblins will not spot the PCs till they: 1. make some loud noise, 2. attack from a distance, and 3. approach within 50 feet. If the PCs get closer before attacking they can see the ragged group seems to be composed of dwarves including some children (5 males, 8 females, 6 children). They also can see that the goblins are forcing a dwarven male (a 6th) to shave himself with a dagger. He has shaved most of his beard and hair off already, he is covered in small cuts and occasionally cries out in pain.

The goblins are armed with short swords MM 107 3E, and shields. 7 of them are armed with short bows and 12 arrows. The goblins are not interested in fighting, as soon as 2 are wounded or 1 is killed they will flee on the wolves. The PCs should not be able to catch them since they are on foot. If they do the goblins will turn and fight if cornered or surrender if no other choice presents itself.

The dwarves will weep with joy at their rescue , they will embarrass the characters with their gratitude. Things like kissing shoes or cloak hems, prostrating themselves before them, etc. It will take a few minutes before they can compose themselves enough to speak coherently with the party. The dwarf who was being shaved will introduce himself as Regner of the Stonefist clan.

He will thank the characters for their rescue, his cheeks will go red with shame as he then asks if they perhaps could spare some food for the children. If asked, he states that the goblins have taken all they have and their beards were the only thing left to take. The party can see that many of the dwarves are starving, wounded, sick, and dressed in little more than rags.

Regner will explain that they are trying to make it to a human town somewhere before the winter snows freeze them. Their homes have been taken over and they are the only ones to escape the slavery that claimed their families. He tells the party that 3 months ago they lived underground and one day without warning the cursed Duergar tunneled their way into the bottom levels of the cavern that as their clan home. They were led by a terrible being, "A great round and hideous orb that was covered with eyes. These eyes shot out beams of magic that killed or harmed those who stood against it."

Note: Enjoy the looks of horror on the faces of your players as they assume the creature described is a beholder)

Regner will suddenly beg the characters for help. He tells them that the goblins will return and destroy them eventually, if the party could help them get to a place of safety they would be eternally grateful. He will promise any thing that seems conceivable to him. Wealth, food, maps of the area, being a guide, indentured servitude (himself), whatever might tempt the characters.

The problem here being that the party is lost and has no knowledge of a safe place. Regner asks if they can accompany them till a safe place is reached. The party will probably think this a bad idea. They are already lost and possibly low on supplies, adding a group of ragged refugees who have no food, warm clothing or weapons will slow them down considerably.

However the decision is forced quite quickly. While the debate is going on amongst the party. A goblin approaches bearing a white flag or some other symbol of truce, free passage, etc. If allowed to approach the goblin in halting common, states that "War leader Davrus wishes to speak to the mighty warriors." If the players agree to a neutral parley, Davrus and 2 aides meet the party a short way always from the dwarves. Davrus approaches a warrior-type who has no facial hair, or the least amount if possible. After making compliments on their obvious battle prowess Davrus explains that he and his warriors hold no ill will toward the party BUT they must slay the dwarves and the party must stay out of the way.

Davrus the goblin war leader has told the party that while they respect their powers that the dwarven refugees must be killed! Davrus further explains that dwarves are a vermin on the world and they cannot be allowed to leave the area and possibly thrive to trouble the goblins again. He states that goblin history tells them that "the evil hairy ones are well known for the troubles that they cause goblins. We have only allowed them to live so far because they were to weak to be a threat but now with your aid they might escape to thrive and that must not be allowed."

Davrus listens to whatever the players have to say quietly. If they agree to turn over the dwarves then he cheerfully has his goblins massacre them and wishes the party a safe trip. Likely though the PCs tell him no. Davrus will ask if they intend to protect the dwarves. When they tell him yes then he will inform them that they will still attempt to kill the dwarves and he regrets any injury that his goblins may cause the "powerful warriors". He will try to leave at this point and holler back that they will do their best not to target the party. Davrus and his force will leave, or his next in line if Davrus is killed by the party during negotiations. The dwarves are now desperate and Regner will again beg the party to protect them from the goblins. If shown the player's maps, given them by Charilus, he will state that he can "more or less guide them to that area"

Note: In truth he can guide the players to the approximate area, however Regner will say anything at this point to save the lives of his kin.

The players now have a dilemma. The PCs must come up with means to protect and feed the dwarves and themselves. Their resources are limited, the mountainous area is home to some small trees and scrub brush but little else. Game is to be found but with the heavy rains and the coming winter it is not plentiful. They will also be forced to travel; at the rate of the slowest member- in this case half-starved dwarven children. Movement rate of 10-15 feet a round (2E 3″ to 6″). Also horses are now nearly useless in the harsh mountain terrain.

Several hours will pass before the goblins try anything. They will be using their worgs to send some small groups ahead of the party while scouts will follow the party and see what preparations they make. After nightfall will come the first attack.

The characters have become the protectors of a ragged group of dwarven refugees. After several hours of travel they will have to set up camp. Find out what methods the characters intend to take to protect themselves and the 20 dwarves, sleeping arrangements, food, cleansing,etc.

6 goblins are waiting a signal from their comrades about 1/2 mile behind the party. 2 goblins will be scouting the party's area from about 200-300 yards away from the encampment. When they notice the least amount of party members awake, 1 will creep back to alert the others. When they arrive the 6 goblins will attempt to sneak into the players camp. Their method will be to quickly overpower any guard before he/she can call out an alarm. They will then cut the throats of all the dwarves present and quietly leave.

They will of course fail miserably. The PCs may have warning spells up, be faking their sleep, or have 2 or more guards. 6 goblins will prove completely incapable of subduing even 1 PC before he gives an alarm. The goblins will attempt to flee if an alarm is spread but will be unlikely to get far. The 2 scouts will leave and attempt to meet back with the main force to tell of first group's failure.

No more attacks come that evening but take steps to keep the players on their toes. Odd sounds and rustling bushes, a stressed out dwarf wakes screaming from a nightmare shrieking "THE EYE! THE EYE!" All this should contribute to a feeling of paranoia and a lack of sleep for all party members.

The next day brings the threat of rain. The skies are a constant gray and threaten to pour down at any moment. This continues till noon or so when a powerful downpour sends the party looking for cover. A small overhang provides some small shelter but they must all stand to stay underneath. The rain continues for over an hour. The mood is gloomy, party members and dwarves must stand almost on top of each other to avoid the rain. Through it all the dwarves offer no real complaint, having endured worse over the last several weeks. Any pack animals must be left in the rain unless some magic is used to contain them.

After 45 minutes or so an arrow will come from somewhere in the rain to strike a dwarf chosen at random! 2 goblin archers have found the party. They have hidden themselves amongst some large rocks and with the driving rain are basically invisible to the party. The dwarves will panic and scatter as a second arrow is fired at a random target. The players will have a definite problem, the dwarves are running off into the blinding rain, they cannot see the archers and the overhang makes them sitting ducks. With some work the PCs will find the archers. If approached by party members they will attempt to escape rather than fight.

Note: capturing goblins as prisoners will not help much, the individual groups do not really know what the other groups are planning. They can tell the party that several groups of goblins with worgs were sent ahead of the party and the main war party of about 50 is traveling about 2 days in back of the party.

The party has suffered through another goblin attack. After they deal with the goblin archers they have to regroup with the dwarves. Besides any injuries that occurred from the archers, one of the female dwarves has suffered a broken ankle in the mad rush to escape the overhang. Clerical spells can heal the break but it will still be tender and a homemade crutch must be designed or perhaps a pack animal must be made to carry the injured dwarf. No more attacks occur that day, nor at night when the party camps.

On the next day, while the party is crossing a fairly open and flat area, 3 goblins begin slinging stones from the cover of a large boulder. They are about 30 yards to the left of the party. These goblins are just a diversion, they will sling a few stones and attempt to draw the players towards the rocks. The real attack comes after the players have moved off, then 5 more goblins will spring up from their positions hidden in the bushes about 10 yards to the right of the group. The second group will attack the dwarves directly, attacking whatever dwarf is nearest them till they are slain or driven off by the party. There is almost certain to be casualties amongst the dwarves at this point. The goblins do not care if they target adults or children so long as the dwarves are slain. Once the attack is over the dwarves will mourn sorrowfully for a few moments then Regner or another dwarf will state that they must "continue on so that the remainder live on for the others."

At this point feel free to add small attacks of your own. The goblins will be getting discouraged and have only 2 real plans left to try.

The party has suffered several attacks at the hands of small groups of goblins. The players are going to be frustrated with the fact that protecting the dwarves is much harder than simply protecting themselves. So its time to make things even harder.

2 days go by with no attacks. The dwarves are little help to the party, besides "Regner" most are completely despondent and do not expect to survive. Regner will try to motivate his people, possibly with a song or dwarven tale. He may ask one of the players, a bard in particular, if they have any stories of adventure that would lift the spirits of his people.

Note: This would be a good way time to emphasize the dwarves sorry plight and build sympathy for them amongst the players. Play out and describe the miserable state they are in, have some of the dwarves attempt to help the players with menial task, and the smaller children may crave a hero or perhaps just need someone to hold them. Any dwarven PCs get all this in TRIPLICATE, now back to our story.

2 days have gone by without any attacks. The party comes to an area of very rough terrain, some climbing will have to be done. The dwarves(weakened from their poor existence) are going to have problems climbing up the steep and rough mountain sides. Regner will inform the party that going around will take them at least 1 week out of their way. It is possible for the characters to use levitation or fly spells to make the going easier. Smart players will scout out the climb with a flying character first. Sure enough near the top of this mountainside is a group of 6 goblins who have set up rocks so that they may cause an avalanche to fall on the party.

Note: a flying character may spot the goblins ahead of time, in which case they will trigger the rock slide immediately, or an errant fireball may also do the job for them.

In any case if the landslide occurs, the players will have 3 rounds to figure out a way to protect themselves and the dwarves before it hits. Any dwarves caught in the rock slide are likely killed. Party members will take 4d10 points of damage, Reflex DC 15 for 1/2 damage (2E Paralyzation save).

Players who make no do not scout ahead or make no efforts to protect the dwarves will lose most if not all of them here. If you wish to be merciful you can have a few survive by blind luck.

The party, and hopefully a few dwarves, have just survived an avalanche attempt by the goblins. Questioning any prisoners will reveal nothing the players do not already know. The goblins are desperate now, they believe the players magic is too strong to fight. They only have one last tactic to try and one last trick if that doesn't work.

After the rock climb Regner will inform the party that they are nearly out of the goblin's normal territories. He believes the area on the player's map is only a week distant and the ground is more level than previous areas. The remaining dwarves are too frightened and demoralized to feel excited yet. They feel certain the goblins will follow them till they are all dead.

The day will pass without incident. Davrus, or his replacement, is forcing his remaining worg riders to pass the players position for 1 last ambush. His remaining goblins will not be able to catch the party before they can escape. He has sent runners back to his tribe to tell them of the possible escape of the dwarves. The next day the players will spot a group of approximately 30 goblins at a far distance to the south. These are the remaining forces of Davrus. The party can tell that they are at least 1 or 2 miles behind.

Approximately 1 P.M. Davrus's attack will happen. A group of goblins mounted on worgs will ride out with the sun at their back. There are 6 worgs, each carrying 2 goblins. The first goblin is armed with a crude lance of sorts, the second goblin will jump off when the worg gets close to the group. The mounted goblins will keep far apart to avoid area effects spells but will try to keep characters engaged while the goblins on foot go for the dwarves. 3 rounds after this a second group of goblins on worgs (6 worgs with 1 goblin each) will approach from the opposite direction. These goblins will attempt to grab a dwarf and ride off. Likely they will go for children or the injured. These riders will not stop for combat unless they are unable to grab a victim. If they grab a dwarf they will not stop until well away from the combat at which point they will kill their victim.

This should end up a very confused melee. The first group of worg riders will refuse to stand and fight, constantly moving so as to present a hard target and possibly make a charge attack on a player from behind. The goblins who jump off the worgs will wade into combat attempting to distract players or kill unprotected dwarves. The last group of riders will present a real problem for players who do not have enough mobility to catch a sprinting worg. Several things to remember for this fight is that ranged attacks may have a chance of hitting captive dwarves and the goblins fight this battle without fleeing or surrendering. They believe they are doing this for the survival of their tribe.

Any worg riders who escape with victims may eventually come back for a second but they have been instructed to meet up about 1/4 mile ahead of the party.

If the party succeeds here, then Davrus is forced to admit failure. He calls for a parley about 1 hour later. He is accompanied by 2 goblins, and any survivors form the last mission. If he is allowed to live long enough, he bows his head in defeat and tells them he will let the dwarves go with no more attacks. "Too many of my people have been kill to continue this battle." he states with a shrug. He actually attempts to flatter the players with praise of their battle prowess and cleverness. He then offers them gifts to cool their anger against his people. He has his 2 assistants bring forth 3 crude necklaces, leather straps with small colored stones imprinted with goblin symbols upon them. They are valued at 5 gp. each. He also offers them a barrel of Aleate wine. Brewed from certain fungus his people cultivate. He goes on to say it is very potent and has been known to give visions.

Note: The wine is poisoned, this is Davrus last try. He is hoping the players will be poisoned and then the dwarves will die without the players aid. Detect poison spells or perhaps detect lies will reveal his intentions. If the players let him live to this point, he wishes them well and with an air of defeat sets off to the south to rejoin his people.

The players will have no more trouble from Davrus and indeed the necklaces will give the players a boost in dealing with other goblins they might come across. If the dwarves are all dead before this point, Davrus will not bother to meet the players since he will consider his job finished.

Now all the players have to do is find a new home for their ragged friends.