The party with Omar will reach Landover without any further incident. Omar will suggest cleaning up a bit before meeting with Charilus. He will volunteer to see if any healing can be done for the PC's, mentioning that Charilus will take care of the cost.

When the party arrives at the inn Charilus will already be seated and looking annoyed. He looks impatient and as soon as they arrive he asks after the mask. Omar will attempt to intercede and explain how the mask was stolen. Charilus will nearly explode with anger blaming the party's incompetence and even going so far as to question their honesty. Just when things are about to blow up a soft hand touches Charilus shoulder and a feminine voice gently rebukes him to "allow these folk to retain their good temperament."

Charilus introduces his granddaughter Elan a priestess of (insert local deity of luck and good fortune here).

Elan takes a seat and introduces herself to the party. She is dressed in a long yellow dress with the symbol of her god embroidered into small marks on the hem of her dress. She has long back-length blond hair and green eyes.

Elan has a calming effect on Charilus, she apologizes for him and tries to explain his and her position. Charilus and Elan, with Omar interjecting, explain about the masks.

After explaining, Elan will ask the PC's if they would consider helping them look for the masks. She tells of her fears for the ways they will be used, and that they know of others seeking the masks. She includes Baron Ganth, an evil man who would use the masks to further his own power. Charilus will mention that other,darker powers may also be seeking the masks.

If the party agrees, Elan states she will accompany them, over Charilus protests. Charilus informs them that he has narrowed the search area on one masks down to the eastern mountains, unfortunately that's as close as he can get. He then suggests that the PCs head to the village of King's Reach. There they may mount an expedition and ask the locals for information. Charilus will fund the expedition but only give the money to his granddaughter and not to the PCs.

The party sets out from the village of Landover to the village of King's Reach. It is nearing winter and by the time the players arrive the deep snows will be on them. Elan suggests buying heavy clothing before going, or along the way.

The trip is long and King's Reach is one of the furthest points in the kingdom. If you wish to play out some aspects of the trip, such as a side adventure, it is suggested at this point.

When they party arrives in King's Reach they notice the village is even smaller than they were told, maybe 50 individuals in all. After seeing what little there is of the town the party should look for lodging or the center of town activity. An inn is recommended

The Kings Reach Inn: There is some activity going on here. Before they enter the players may notice a half dozen horses with the brands of Baron Ganth, heraldry skill, upon them. Inside 6 of the Baron's men are drinking and making fun of the locals, occasionally grabbing at the worried looking serving girl.

Questioning the innkeeper Silas will not get much information. He is preoccupied with the soldiers rough treatment of the serving girl, his daughter. If the PCs don't do anything the innkeeper will eventually speak to the soldiers. If this occurs the soldiers will then attempt to beat and humiliate him, "Bark like a dog old man", and so on. The soldiers will not respect the PCs nor listen to their protests. A fight is likely to break out.

The 6 soldiers are 2nd level warriors. All are currently in leather armor, they are armed with long swords and carry daggers. None will draw a weapon unless, one of their opponents do, spells are used, they are badly losing, or they are being humiliated.

A group of 12 locals will arrive on the scene eventually with the idea of throwing the soldiers out, and the PCs too if they tear up the inn. If the players are losing the locals can show up to save them or help drive away the soldiers, who will taunt the players as they leave.

Afterwards if the players were helpful their stay will be free and the locals will tell what information they have. The most likely sounding rumors are of a haunted cave up on the side of Mount Shastan, about 3 days ride plus the climb, if the snows go easy. They are told to look for a long rope bridge that crosses a chasm.

Most likely the players have been told of a haunted cave in the mountains that may hold the mask they seek, from chapter 2b.

The trip is hard due to the deep snows that have set in. Snowshoes from King's Reach are necessary here or the PCs will have a very hard time. Enforce rules concerning the cold weather: metal armor is nearly impossible to wear for long periods, game is almost impossible to find, movement speeds are half and freezing to death is a real possibility here. Play up the long winter nights and the empty open sky.

Eventually the players will see the rope bridge that they had been told of. The rope bridge is 200' long and the boards are a bit rickety, of course.

As the PCs debate about the bridge they will see the soldiers from the village again . They are armed with longbows in addition to their earlier weapons, see chapter 2b. They are also accompanied by 6 more soldiers and their leader Dylan. They will fire on the PCs from long range, but they will attempt to close the distance fast. If the pcs decide to cut the rope bridge they will begin to hurry theyre pursuit. The rope bridge is AC 10 and takes 15 points of damage to break each of the 2 side ropes. PCs trying to cross the rope bridge catiously will take 2 rounds single file with a dex checks at +2 bonus. Those feeling a bit hurried will take 1 round but the dex check is at -4. A fall into the ravine is only 25 feet(3d6) but the sides are steep and the snow is deep, about 10'. Dylan will not put himself in harms way if his men lose or appear to be losing. He will flee.

Once across the rocks provide plenty of cover from arrows, 75% if they need to fire back. When the soldier are dealt with or have given up the PCs may continue to explore this side.

Once across the rope bridge the PCs will have to locate the cave. They are currently standing at the base of a mountain with small caves and nooks all along its sides.

The search will take several more days and the PCs will notice clouds moving in. Players with weather sense skills will realize a snow storm is coming, perhaps a blizzard even.

Sure enough that night the winds begin to howl and a blizzard sets in by morning. Visibility quickly becomes only a few feet and shelter must be found or the PCs will die! The smallish caves that dot the mountain are not deep enough to give cover. Party members without any protection spells from cold will now take 1 hit point of damage every 4 hours.

Eventually Elan will cast a locate object spell to look for cover. She will point through the blinding snow and yell out "That way!". If the party members run blindly after her they will also fall into the snowy crevasse that she falls into, taking 1d6 damage.

The crevasse is a ragged hole in the earth mostly covered by snow, it drops about 10'. Elan has twisted her ankle badly upon falling in, a cure light wounds spell to fix.

A short look around the hole reveals this to be the cover that Elan located with her spell. The players can cover up the top with blankets or tents to keep out the wind and set a fire. The players will obviously set up camp to eat, heal wounds, and light a fire to keep warm.

Unfortunately this crevasse is unstable, the floor is mostly ice and a fire melts it enough causing it to collapse. Later when most of the party is sleeping a cracking noise will be heard, followed quickly by more, then the floor shifting, then collapsing! The party will be dropped onto a mound of broken rock and ice. They will keep rolling and falling into an underground river, 1d6 of damage for the fall. If the party does not light a fire make the ice collapse under their weight.

The river is unfrozen and not very deep but still too cold for the PCs. The river is fast however those with swimming skill will be able to control themselves immediately. Those without swimming must make a strength check or be helped out. A shore is nearby with a natural alcove, about 10' in diameter. The party however is now in dire trouble. Some belongings will be lost in the river and all the tinder will be wet. The party is soaking wet now and those without magical protections from cold will soon die! Nahh, just let em think this.

Hypothermia and frostbite will be coming on and the weaker members wont have long to live. Huddling together, body to body contact, for warmth is all they can do really. This will only allow them to live a bit longer of course. After a bit Elan who is chattering constantly will slip into delirium and call to her parents, eventually getting a bit loud before passing out.

As they attempt to dry off they realize that going back up the rock/ice slide will be nearly impossible. There is a slightly warm breeze coming from somewhere. With a little bit of effort, and infravision to see the waves of heat in the air, they will realize that the breeze is coming from a hole the underground river goes into.

So its back into the water they go!. The river seems to head back underground a few feet away but if checked leads into a more or less naturally eroded cavern. They will have to swim underwater for about 30' and in water for another 40'.

The river has led the party to a natural cavern created by erosion. They will feel warmth coming from somewhere up ahead but they might be concerned with drying off their equipment and healing up first. The temperature in this cavern is about 55 F, still cold but not like the blizzard raging overhead. They may even start a fire.

Afterwards they explore the cavern infravison tells them the warm air comes from deeper in the earth,actually an old volcano but do not tell them this. The walls of the cavern are covered with rings caused by water erosion, meaning the river was much higher at one point.

After searching they will discover that one wall of the cavern is discolored indicating a different type of stone. Those with stonework skills will determine it is artificial but very old. With only a little effort they can knock down the damaged wall to see into the tunnel beyond.

1: The tunnel goes both left and right. It is about 12' in height and 9' in width. The tunnel is also half-full of water though the air here is even warmer, about 75 F. Checking the left tunnel shows that the tunnel forms into a set of stairs which is blocked by ice and rubble. The blocked passage is dig-able but will take about 15-20 man hours of work.

2: The right tunnel continues on at some length. If they examine the walls the party will notice that images have been carved and painted at different points. These images are a race of reptilians that worshipped some kind of snakelike god. In some of the images the god is shown wearing a mask or helmet that is blue in color.

3: About 50' ahead, the way is partially blocked by a tunnel collapse. Trying to clear it is possible but it will take 40 minutes to do with a 45% (9 in 20)chance for a further collapse. Any collapse will result in 4d6 damage to the digger and any within 10' unless they make a DEX check at -2. Cut the turns to 3 and the chance of collapse to 25% (5 in 20) if a natural digger type is with the party, a dwarf, gnome, etc.

4:After clearing the rubble enough to crawl through, more digging might cause a total collapse, the party can see a pair of large double doors up ahead. About 40' more of tunnel separates the party from the doors. There is a pit trap about 30' from the door but water has opened it and trigged it. The water fills the pit and a bit of the tunnel up to the doors. The pit is only 10' deep and it poses no danger to party members unless they are bad swimmers and no one helps them back out. This serves merely to warn them, don't say you never give them a break of the up coming trap.

5: When they reach the door they will notice it is made of bronze. The water has begun to pit the door but it still holds solid if not airtight. The doors have no lock but are heavy, and also trapped. If pulled with enough force to open, it will fall on the opener and anyone else standing there. It weighs approximately 150 lbs. Those hit by the falling door on will take 1d4 damage, luckily the water broke the fall. The door, once fallen, will slide toward the pit due to the water. Players will be stuck under water if pinned by the door, unluckily the water broke their fall. Check the rules for drowning and hope the party is not made of a bunch of low strength wizards.

6: The room beyond the doors is also partially flooded. It is one large room resembling a temple. There are columns, some broken, that line either side. This room is 50' wide and 30' long with a platform that rises out of the muck. The platform has 5 steps that rise up to an altar area. Perched on top of the altar is the "god" of this temple, a spirit naga. The naga wear the Mask of Abjuration on its head. When the party breaks in the naga summons the spirits of its attendants to defend its temple. 12 Lizard-man skeletons rise up around the party, use standard skeletons. They are unarmed but movement for party members is 1/2 in the water and muck. The naga will sit imperiously until half the skeletons are destroyed or it is personally attacked. The skeletons will collapse if the naga dies. See the standard game entries for this creatures abilities.

After defeating the creatures the party may claim their reward, the mask and the naga's small hoard of sacrificial offerings. This consists of 457 gold pieces, with a snake head stamped on them. A Golden necklace with a small silver claw as a pendant (value about 150 g.p.),1200 silver pieces, and a slightly curved short sword with a handle made of bone. This is the sword "Flayer".

Afterwards the party may rest on the platform and take steps to remove the blocked stairways. Once the blizzard passes the way to King's Reach will be clear and no other encounters overtake them.