The characters have finally put the Sundered Bone goblin tribe behind them. Hopefully Regner and some members of his clan have survived also. They have also finally reached the area that Charilus has sent them to. Their map notes that they are at a set of mountains known as The Wrestlers and that they need to look for an underground tomb, temple, or some other type of complex to locate the next Mask.

Unfortunately The Wrestlers are a series of mountain peaks that culminates into 1 peak. The peak appears to be to 2 men wrestling each other. The party quickly realizes that the area to search is huge and could take months to comb it without some kind of magical assistance.

Regner will be happy to volunteer himself and his people to aid the players if they can continue to look for a new home for his people also. "Perhaps", he says "we may find a home in this mountain range that you need to search".

The players will probably try using magic to solve their problems here. They are extremely unlikely to find anything that way. Magical divinations will not reveal anything close by and divine inspiration will turn up little more than "Help is given to those who help themselves".

Allow the players some time to then figure out methods for scouting the mountains, dividing up into search groups, finding a home base to rest at, and necessities like food and water.

Note: If they do not seem inclined to do this for themselves you can have Regner suggest it to them. He is skilled at survival in this terrain and can make suggestions though his first concern would to be finding a safe place to base out of and food for his people.

The players have begun combing the Mountain range known as The Wrestlers for several days. They have had to find shelter, food, and water before beginning their search for the underground tomb.

The dwarves are some help to the party; they are able to give some tips for searching, climbing, and general safety tips. One thing of note is that this mountain range is fairly desolate, almost no intelligent beings reside on or in it. A few wandering encounters could occur but they will tend to be non-intelligent animals/monsters who are motivated mostly by hunger or territorial instincts. After a few days of searching, and possibly looking for a better shelter, a search party will be attacked.

The search party that is attacked should consist of players or be player led, while they are scouring the mountainside a large boulder impacts near the party, or if you like hits the PC with the most HPs for appropriate damage.

Normal sight will not immediately reveal who threw it at them but detecting for invisible or waiting for the next one will. The boulders came from the Stone Giant Priest Crusht. He is currently camouflaged against the rocks but will be revealed when he throws the next boulder and yells out a warning, in Giantish, for the party to "leave this place or be destroyed!"

After throwing a 2nd boulder Crusht will threaten to throw more if the party shows signs of attacking or advancing on him. The only options here are:

1. Retreat: If they do this Crusht will watch to make sure they do not return but will not attack them further.

2. Attack: Crusht will defend himself with all the spells at his disposal. He does not wish to die however and if it appears he is going to lose he will cast Meld into stone and retreat. He will later heal his wounds and summon an earth elemental. The elemental serves without being forced and stays till it completes it task. He will Spell up the elemental to protect it and have it attack the parties camp at night when they rest, if possible he will assist it with hurled boulders that are inscribed with Glyph of warding spells or other tricks.

3. Diplomacy: If the players can communicate with Crusht (he speaks giantish and dwarven) he can be reasoned with. He will inform the party that they stand on sacred ground and that they must leave immediately or he will consider them enemies. If they ask him about an underground tomb, he will not be aware of any but he does know of some "Holes in the earth where smaller creatures are known to scurry about."

He informs the group of 3 possible sites to check out but is unable to say what may occupy the areas. With his directions the group will be able to find all 3 caves in a short matter of time.

Note: without Crusht's directions the players must explore the mountain range till they stumble over something.

Crusht, male stone giant Clr7
CR 15; Size L (12 ft., 7 in. tall); HD 14d8+56 + 7d8+28; hp 173; Init +1 (+1 Dex); Spd 40 ft.; AC 21 (+1 Dex, -1 Size, +11 Natural); Attack +24/+19/+14 melee, or +14/+9/+4 ranged; SV Fort +18, Ref +7, Will +12; AL N; Str 32, Dex 13, Con 19, Int 10, Wis 17, Cha 11.
Languages Spoken: Giant, Dwarvish

Skills and feats: Climb +13, Concentration +10, Diplomacy +9, Hide +6, Jump +13, Listen +3, Move silently +1, Spot +6, Use rope +4; Combat casting, [Combat reflexes], Craft wand, Enlarge spell, [Point blank shot], [Power attack], [Precise shot].

Special ability: Once a day travel through stone for up to 7 rounds (similar to xorn and earth elemental ability) and summon huge earth elemental (requires hour long ritual to do so)

Cleric Domains: Strength, Earth.
Cleric Spells Per Day: 6/5+1/4+1/3+1/1+1.
Spell List:
1st: bless, divine favor, entropic shield, obscuring mist, summon monster 1 (x2)
2nd: aid, bull's strength, delay poison, soften earth and stone, shatter
3rd: dispel magic, prayer, speak with dead, stone shape
4th: spike stones, greater magic weapon

EQ: None

Crusht is on a holy retreat; the mountain range known as the Wrestlers is known to be a holy place where his god may have once lived with his people. He is currently communing with the mountain and wishes no interference from "the small peoples" as he puts it.

He will fight to drive them away but if they attempt to parley he will stop long enough to find out what they wish and to warn them off. Crusht does not wish the party to leave the entire range but he wants them to leave this area because he believes this to be the ancient campsites of his people.

If Crusht is forced into battle he will use boulders for missile weapons and his spells in an offensive manner. If he truly believes he will lose then he will use his travel through stone ability to flee into the mountainside. Later he will heal himself and use spells to spy on the party, then he will summon an elemental and attack them while they are camping-hoping to take them by surprise.

When role-playing Crusht remember that while he can be reasoned with, he tends to make judgments quickly and must then be talked into seeing another side of things. If the players convince him that they mean no harm then he will talk more freely. If they respond to his poor attempts at warning them away, throwing rocks at them, with violence then he will be convinced that they are here to despoil his holy mountain after all.

Crusht carries no treasure with him. He has taken this journey under a vow of hardship and will accept no help or gold from the party.

At this point the players have either wandered aimlessly for weeks, or months, or gotten directions from the Stone Giant priest Crusht. One way or another they finally come across 3 possible areas that may contain the hidden tomb that they have been told to look for.

Note: For these areas cave 1 was explored by a drow search party who were all killed and eaten by the behir that lairs there. Cave 2 once contained a basilisk but that creature was destroyed by the drow though 1 of their number died and has since returned as an undead. Cave 3 is the very unused, but still guarded, drow entrance to the surface world for this area.

Cave #1: This cave is a crevasse with a large cave like opening in its side. The crevasse is approximately 200 feet long; its width is about 20-50' in most spots. It is fairly deep going 120' to the bottom though a dwarf or skilled climber can see a spot that is only 100' to the bottom. Obviously ropes and climbing gear will be needed unless the party had spells for flying or levitating everyone down. As they proceed down the sides tell a random player that he spots a bluish colored object stuck between 2 rocks. If they investigate the object will be discovered to be a scale, like that of a lizard or dragon.

Note: Be prepared for party debate and long preparations here, players get jumpy when they think your going to throw a dragon at them. Just grin at them and say nothing if they assume it's a dragon let them.

The climb or flight to the bottom passes without incident. Once they reach the bottom they will notice a few more scales and some obvious drag marks that would indicate a snakelike body or long tail. The cave entrance is 40' high but while 50' wide at the bottom narrows as it goes up till the top is only a few feet across. Also the party will note animal bones lay out near the entrance of the cave, all very well chewed on.

Once the players get close to the entrance call for listen rolls at DC 15 (2E: Int checks) those who make it hear something sniffing the air loudly and are not surprised. For the rest they suddenly hear a loud roar, some the clatter of rocks and see a large blue reptilian head (a behir: 3E MM 24, HP 101) emerge and breathe a cone of electricity. Those who heard the sniffing may act in the surprise round, others may just stand there and get toasted.

After breathing the behir will emerge from the cave and attack, once the extra legs come into view the players will know that something is up. The creature will fight savagely and only back down if reduced to 1/3 its hit points. It will then attempt to flee back into the cave or, with its fast climbing ability, scamper up the side of the ravine like a snake and attempt to hide itself under some large boulders. If it does flee it will not return until the players leave the area.

Inside the cave is a nest of sorts made from animal bones and debris. A thorough search yields little of interest. In the nest are the old remains of humanoids of some type. They too tall for halflings, gnomes, or kobolds but could be just about anything else. All of their equipment has rotted away save for a short sword that lies wedged in a crack behind the nest. (DC 25 for search rolls or a detect magic will find it.)

This sword is Kinslayer a weapon of the dark elves.

Cave #2: This cave entrance lies higher up on the slopes of one of the nearby mountains. The party will be able to spot this cave from a few miles away. It resembles a long vertical crack about 20' in height but only about 6' wide. If the party is nearby at night they may see a flock of large bats fly out just after sundown. When the party approaches the cave they will notice several obvious statues, they resemble local animals, though 1 is of an orc, and another is a bat that appears to have become broken after being dropped or perhaps falling.

Note: Ok, the players are now thinking basilisk\gorgon\medusa. So be prepared for more planning and preparation. Once again just smile quietly and wait for them to decide the course of action.

Investigations of the statues will reveal them to be very life like and the orc appears to be cowering in fear and holding a backpack in front of him. Also a few of the statues have bat guano splattered on them. The bottom 8' of the cave entrance is only 3' wide the party members may need to help smaller races to get inside. Once they have entered the crack they will notice that light is an immediate need since sunlight does not penetrate due to the caves angle and nearby cliff faces.

The interior is still quite thin but appears to open up further ahead. The floor is slick with guano and small centipedes and beetles crawl about the characters feet, also it is quite difficult to breathe due to the stink. At 45' the cave opens up into a large natural cavern. There is a drop of about 7' to the floor. It is noticed almost immediately that the bats are living in this portion far away from any light. Unless the party comes to the cave at night their will be 200 normal bats here along with 5 of the larger huge bats (3E MM 193: 1 HD, 1 AT, 1d3 DAM). Any bright light will arouse the bats. The huge bats will attack the party directly with diving attacks, while the smaller bats will flutter about causing incidental damage and disrupting spell casting.

These effects should be simulated as thus: each party member in the cave will take 1 point of damage for every 100 bats or portion thereof and spell casters will have to make concentration checks of DC 25 to cast (2E save vs. paralyzation to cast) The best way to destroy the smaller bats would be with area effects spells or silence spells to rob them of their echolocation ability or smoke to drive them out of the cave.

Once the larger bats are under control a new wrinkle occurs. A dark elf warrior was slain by the basilisk that once lived here, his comrades left him behind and his spirit has waited for a long time to exact revenge upon the living. Once he senses the party members (intelligent living beings) he returns to his corpse and animates it so as to destroy them.

Suddenly rising from the 2 foot deep guano is a horrific sight. A skeletal figure, his bones covered in guano and the vermin that skitter along the floor. His eyes shine with an unholy blue light as he attacks the party. He is the equivalent of a Wight but with maximum HPs, he also turns as 1 level higher. Anyone hits by his grimy claws will definitely be infected with a rotting disease. This must be cured through magical means or it will kill the injured party after a short but unhappy period of misery. Once these menaces have been dealt with the party can search the room, if they really want to heh, but they find nothing of value only the long decayed remains of the basilisk covered in filth. Feel free to disease the other party members who spend too much time here-remember kids never play in guano!

The party has explored caves 1 and 2 by now, or if you like simply skip them to here.

Note: this area is an unused drow surface entrance. The dark elves that are posted here have been sent here as punishment or because of political considerations. While they will initially attack the party, once the leader becomes aware of them she will attempt to bargain so as to discover their purpose and, more importantly to her, see what she can gain from the deal. If the party does not wish to make a deal then the drow will have no choice but to fight the party. Unlike some other situations making an alliance here could be fatal since the drow will betray the party at their weakest moment.

Cave #3 is the furthest along their route and also the hardest to reach. It lies back down the mountainsides and near several treacherous cliff faces. One thing to note is that a small grove of trees lies near the cave growing ably along the sheer side of the cliff face.

The cave entrance is immediately different to the players since it is obviously worked stone. The entrance is 15' high and 20'; there are no signs of passage however. Inside the cave resembles a long tunnel winding down at a slight slope into the earth. As soon as the players reveal light the guards who watch this entrance will spot them.

The passage here travels approximately 200' before reaching the defenses at area #1. If the party is using a light source then they will be spotted at a distance of 100' unless it is night on the surface in which case they will be spotted immediately upon entering the tunnel.

Read through the accompanying area Dark Elf Complex before running this section. We'll wait for you. hmmm, hmm, hmm. You back? Ok lets continue.

Dark elf reactions: When the dark elves notice the party, 1 will go to send out the alarm while the other attacks with his poisoned crossbow. The guard will return in 2 rounds and 3 guards and 1 officer will arrive 2 rounds after him. They will continue to barrage the characters and prevent anyone getting past the wall. They will use their darkness spells to hinder the party. They have no qualms wasting shots by firing into the darkness and hoping for lucky hits. All remaining guards will be suited up after 5 more rounds. 2 will go to the other post to bolster it while the rest and the 2 officers go to the main staging area. The captain will take 3 more rounds to get her armor on and will then drag the wizard Durgaan along with her to the staging area. The captain will then attempt to discover who is attacking from the soldiers at the wall. She will attempt to call a cease-fire at this point. If the party obliges she will ask their business and apologize for her over-aggressive men, all from behind the safety of the wall of course.

If the party does not wish to chat or attempt diplomacy then the dark elves will go back to attacking them. If the party fails to breach the wall and falls back to regroup then Durgaan will be forced to lead an attack against the party through the secret passage, which Sheltan will reseal as he leaves!

He will take 1/2 of the remaining dark elf warriors and officers and attempt to ambush the party's campsite. He will make use of his invisibility spells to help him and the others get close. Remember that Durgaan is a coward and will not let anyone close with him if possible. He will dimension door away when HE decides the raid is a failure, even if he must leave all the troops behind.

Back to the diplomacy option: If the players are amiable to talking, Sheltan will explain that they are here to guard against surface world invasions which makes her men somewhat jumpy. She will ask the party to state what their business is so she can determine if she can grant them passage.

When the dark elves notice the party, 1 will go to send out the alarm while the other attacks with his poisoned crossbow. The guard will return in 2 rounds and 3 guards and 1 officer will arrive 2 rounds after him. They will continue to barrage the characters and prevent anyone getting past the wall. They will use their darkness spells to hinder the party. They have no qualms wasting shots by firing into the darkness and hoping for lucky hits. All remaining guards will be suited up after 5 more rounds. 2 will go to the other post to bolster it while the rest and the 2 officers go to the main staging area. The captain will take 3 more rounds to get her armor on and will then drag the wizard Durgaan along with her to the staging area. The captain will then attempt to discover who is attacking from the soldiers at the wall. She will attempt to call a cease-fire at this point. If the party obliges she will ask their business and apologize for her over-aggressive men, all from behind the safety of the wall of course.

If the party does not wish to chat or attempt diplomacy then the dark elves will go back to attacking them. If the party fails to breach the wall and falls back to regroup then Durgaan will be forced to lead an attack against the party through the secret passage, which Sheltan will reseal as he leaves!

He will take 1/2 of the remaining dark elf warriors and officers and attempt to ambush the party's campsite. He will make use of his invisibility spells to help him and the others get close. Remember that Durgaan is a coward and will not let anyone close with him if possible. He will dimension door away when HE decides the raid is a failure, even if he must leave all the troops behind.

Back to the diplomacy option: If the players are amiable to talking, Sheltan will explain that they are here to guard against surface world invasions which makes her men somewhat jumpy. She will ask the party to state what their business is so she can determine if she can grant them passage.

At this point the party have either decided to fight things out with the dark elves holding the tunnel complex or they are considering talking with them.

Sheltan has asked to know the parties reason for passing through the tunnels. She knows that the mountain range up top is uninhabited and that they must be here for some kind of reason.

Note: the party may decide to pretend to cooperate long enough to get past the wall and then attack. If they do that's fine to. Sheltan will be preparing for something like this. She will have "Durgaan" casting spells like invisibility or any of his defensive spells. Dark elves are masters of treachery and will always be looking for it even when none is there.

If the party is semi-truthful about their intents then Sheltan will show some interest. She will ask questions till they get tired of asking.

Sheltan will claim that she may be able to help locate such a thing, since she has had the surrounding areas mapped out and explored. She will admit to not having come across any tomb or treasure horde but she states, "My maps may show a thing or two that yours do not." For her cooperation and allowing them to pass unhindered sheltan tells the party she wants a percentage of whatever treasure they are here to claim. She will not believe any claims that there is no treasure since the party has obviously traveled a long way to get here. She is certain they are after something of great value.

If the party will not accept her help she will offer to let them pass for a bribe, whatever you think is suitable. 200 gp might work well. She is only accepting the bribe to take them off guard. She intends to find out what information she can, get an idea of who and what she is dealing with, and then have them followed through the under dark so she can ambush them after they are weakened or when resting.

If the party comes through peaceably they will see Sheltan and half of the dark elf warriors and officers. The rest are waiting in the staging area in case of an attack. Durgaan will be invisible and standing near Sheltan.

At this point the options come down to 3 things:
1. The party attacks: The dark elves really are not caught off guard and combat proceeds normally; Sheltan will yell a warning to bring the other warriors from the staging area.
2. The party pays the bribe but does not wish to cooperate: Sheltan will study them for a short time; if the party seems very weak she will have them attacked as they approach the southern exit. If they are not weaklings then she will wish them luck and have them followed at long distances by 2 scouts who Durggan will turn invisible. One of these scouts will report back every 2 hours or so. In the meantime Sheltan will be preparing to pack up important gear and lead an attack against the party after they discover whatever it is they are looking for.
3.The party cooperates with the dark elves: Sheltan will have Durgaan's maps retrieved and compare them to the players maps. She will have food and drink brought, since the process of deciphering the maps will take about 2 hours. Some inconsistencies will be noted but Durgaan will notice some symbols on the players maps that he noted in the under dark and assumed were way markers for travelers.
Durgaan will stay invisible but will tell an officer his findings and the officer will whisper this to Sheltan. Once a suitable course is charted out Sheltan will pack up 1/2 of her troops and herself to accompany the party. All the rest of the troops will follow about 4 hours behind with Durgaan leading them.

The party is past the drow outpost and searching for the tomb. If they are being accompanied by the dark elves then the trip will take about 7 hours walking. If the party has destroyed the outpost, found Durgaan's maps, and notes then they will have to search the tunnels for 2 days before they discover a way marker that matches a symbol on their original map. If the party has paid the drow a brine and refused any help then they must wander the under dark for 5 days before coming across the way markers by blind luck.

Note: If the party is traveling with the dark elves they find all of them but Sheltan to be surly and untrusting traveling companions. They speak only in their own tongue and whisper even then. They prepare their own food and offer none to the party. Sheltan on the other hand will seem quite friendly if a little aggressive, she will be trying to pump the party for information about what to expect, what treasure might be found, and what their actual mission is.

The Tomb:

1. The Entrance: This path is actually a small side tunnel that leads to the tombs entrance. Along the walls are way markers that invoke symbols of evil, danger, and harmful magic. All these symbols are of very old styles, there are many more the players do not recognize since these languages have died out over the centuries.

2. The Door: This is not a door but a plug. Someone sealed the tunnel with no intention of opening it back up. It will take magic, such as stone shape or dig spells, or 30 man-hours to dig out the stone that seals the entrance. When it is finally opened a warding spell on the other side will be triggered and a huge earth elemental (HP: 174) MM 82 3E will be summoned. The elemental will attempt to destroy all that are present and reseal the tunnel. It will then wait just inside the entranceway.

Note: The elemental will pursue targets but only till they leave his range of detection/sight.

3. First Hallway: Once the elemental is dealt with the players can explore the tomb further. Ahead they see a hallway of worked stone. On both the right and left walls are faded paintings that tell of the history of a race of lizard men like beings who were powerful workers of magic. Any one bonded with a mask of power will more or less hear something in their mind say the word "Teng". They will realize that the name is the name of a lizard race and that they may have had something to do with creating the masks. The hallway goes for 25' before reaching area 4.

4. First Set of Alcoves: When the party reaches this spot they will notice a pair of alcoves on both the right and left. These alcoves are occupied by a pair of statues that resemble the lizard beings seen in the paintings. These statues are completely normal, for now. No magic can be detected from them. The statues resemble a naked lizard like being that appears to have scales, a ridged back, and 6 fingers (an extra thumb it would seem). The heads of the statue resemble those of meat eating dinosaurs such as raptors. The statues are not alive and if damaged, they stay damaged. They are part of a large trap that will take place later.

5. Second Hallway: Beyond the alcoves is another hallway similar to the first. However there are two differences here. There is a pressure plates in the along the hallway. This plate are 15' by 10' and sinks 6″ when stepped on. It triggers spring loaded darts to fire from both the walls and the ceiling. Fortunately for the players quite a few of the springs have failed even though they were preserved by magic. Of the 60 darts that are supposed to fire only 10+1d10 actually do. The darts have +10 to attack (THACO 10) and do 1d6 damage each. Most parties will suffer surprise penalties and the darts are targeted randomly amongst anyone in the corridor section (spot DC 20, disarm DC 20). The trap can fire again if the pressure plate is stepped on again.

The paintings on the left and right walls here show one Teng rising to dominate all of his kind. The name Xoth springs unbidden into the mind of mask bearers along with a strange eagerness. The paintings go on to show a conspiracy of Teng wizards that destroy Xoth but are also in the process destroyed.

6. Second Sets of Alcoves: These alcoves appear similar to the first set with 2 lizard-like statues. The only difference is that these statues seem to represent females of the race. This set of statues is the source of a powerful magical trap. As soon as anyone passes through the area between them a small red bead drops from the mouth of the left statue and then explodes as a 7d6 fireball (DC 17). One round later the right hand statue also drops a bead that explodes. One round after this 2 elemental spirits are summoned to inhabit the statues back in the first alcove. The statues then move out to attack anyone in the tomb, likely from behind. One more round will pass and then the female set of statues will be inhabited and they will also attack the party. The Tomb Guardians will cut down any party members or dark elves indiscriminately. Any statues that were completely destroyed will be unable to attack.

7. Third Hallway: After the statues are destroyed with the party may proceed. Beyond the alcoves is a featureless hallway leading to a stone door. There is a secret door on the left side the (DC 25 search). Pushing a loose block near the bottom of the wall triggers it. The door is featureless and is trapped with an arcane fire trap (1d4 +7 DC 17 REF for half damage, DC 29 search and disable). It is also a lame attempt to throw them off guard from the real trap beyond.

Note: That detect magic will detect this trap easily as well as the floor trap beyond.

8. The false Tomb: Beyond the doorway the party can see a large room (40×40). In the back portion can be seen a 6' high sarcophagus on a 2' high platform of black stone. On both walls perpendicular to the sarcophagus there is a worn fresco of two Teng lizard warriors. On the far wall past the sarcophagus is a painting showing some kind of Teng spirit watching all present. On the floor just inside the door is a spell trap. Once anything crossed the threshold it is triggered and a lightning bolt (7d6, DC 29) will streak through the doorway and down the corridor. Once past this trap the party is free to explore the chamber. It contains nothing else. The painting on the far wall seems oddly disturbing but only abjuration magic can be detected from it. The painting is actually a spectre MM 169 3E (HP: 52) trapped in a modified Imprisonment spell. It is impervious to harm in this form until released.

The sarcophagus and platform radiate no magic. The sarcophagus is actually locked (DC 20) and will take strength check (DC 25) to move it. Inside is a skeleton covered in jewelry and half buried in gold pieces. Magic radiates from ALL of it. As soon as the jewelry or gold is touched the spectre is freed and will attack any intruders within the chamber. At the same time the skeleton animates MM 165 3E (HP: 6) as a simple medium skeleton though he has the magical jewelry to help him. But it is most likely to panic PCs and attacks. While this is going on, one round later 2 wraiths MM 185 3E (HP: 38) form out from the frescos and also attack. When these creatures have been dealt with then the treasure from the skeleton and in the coffin can be examined. There is 3,000 gold pieces in the coffin and the skeleton is wearing several pieces of jewelry some of which is magic.

Treasure: A ring with a gold band and engraved platinum symbols inscribed (a +2 ring of protection). A large silver ring with a mounted turquoise stone, non-magical but worth 250 gp. A double looped gold necklace chain with small ruby chips set in alternating pieces (Necklace of Strangulation). A simple crown made of silver with whorls etched upon its surface (Helm of comprehending Languages and Reading Magic, 6 charges lasting 1 hour each charge, "Kackcha" command word to activate). A golden full-face mask with the features of a snarling beast drawn upon its surface. Large red garnets are set in the mask as eyes. The magical from the mask radiates very strongly. When worn the mask provides the wearer with dark sight 120' and the ability not to breathe. The wearer will also notice a command word inscribed upon the inside, only visible to the one who is wearing the mask. If the wearer says the command word while wearing the mask the wearer's soul is drawn into the mask, leaving the body a lifeless corpse. It is possible to save someone who has fallen victim to the mask. Simply place the mask back on the body and cast a dispel magic. The soul will return to the body with no problems. The PCs won't know this without some research or spells.

9. The Real Tomb: Once they have opened the secret door a short passage will be seen heading west. The passage goes 20' before opening up into a room. The room is circular but approximately 25' by 25', it is featureless except for a 10' long and 5' high simple stone coffin. If the players approach the coffin the occupant will sense there approach and throw off the lid. The lid will go flying off and a 10' high creature resembling the Teng statues will stand before the party. This is Ssslhack, the Teng lich. Ssslhack is obviously undead, naked, and wearing a pale yellow mask surrounded by feathers and bearing the features of some kind of bird. This is the real The Mask of Alteration. The creature will not say a word but will attack to the best of its ability. It will not follow those who flee the chamber but will wait to see if they return and cast defensive spells in the meantime. Once the creature is defeated the mask can be claimed from its moldering corpse. No other wealth is within the room.

If the drow have accompanied the party Sheltan (or a surviving officer) will decide to attack once the entire complex SEEMS to have been explored. If the dark elves merely followed the party the ambush group will be waiting outside the tomb. They will not venture inside till 8 hours have passed then they will slowly send in invisible scouts to find out where the party might be hiding/laying dead.