While pursuing the masks Baron Ganth has been building a hidden mountain stronghold to lead his new empire from. This is also where the binding spell will be completed, away from prying eyes and interruptions. Unfortunately he does not realize it will be Xoth's new empire, not his. Xoth has almost complete control of the Baron's mind at this point. With just a word Xoth can make the Baron do exactly what he wishes.

After attaining the masks Baron Ganth makes haste for his secret stronghold taking only a couple private guards with him and leaving the army behind. Upon his arrival he disposes of all remaining workers at the site leaving no witnesses, or apparently so. Xoth knows with his new powers he can complete the fortress on his own. The time has come to finish the binding spell, become whole, and recreate his lost empire.

The binding spell itself is very particular. It was created this way to make sure bringing back Xoth would be very difficult. The spell has to be performed within certain days of the month when the god of rebirth and magic are favored in the sky. For the campaign the time frame is 2 weeks away. Charilus knows this.

The PCs now have to find Xoth before he completes the binding spell. In most cases they will assume Ganth traveled with the army back home. To their surprise they will find Ganth is no where to be found. As a DM you must keep track of time. The PCs have 14 days to stop the Baron from completing the binding ritual. They must find information as to his whereabouts. Below are the ways PCs can find Xoth.

1. Using the Mask of Divination the PCs can find the general area of the stronghold which will lead them to Xoth.

2. Various divination spells will yield a clue to what Ganth is up to. Discretion is left up to the DM. Suggestions are to lead the PCs to information about how to find Ganth not the stronghold itself.

3. The PCs can pursue the army and gain information from them. Some of Xoth's closer henchmen learned of the fortress and know its location lies in a mountain range within the kingdom. It is up to the PCs to get the information.

4. Workers from the fortress that escaped Ganth's spells. They know the exact location of the fortress. These NPCs could be found closer to the fortress near death leaving the area. At most have 2 NPC workers escape Ganth's wrath.

5. Going back to the main city in the Baron's kingdom will yield information as to which companies were used to recruit workers to build the stronghold. A general direction can be given as to which way the workers left. Also what type of equipment was taken. Any dwarf or PC with masonry will identify some of the tools as used to dig out rocks, thus mountains excavation.

6. Tracking is possible but its needs to be a very good roll to determine the exact direction.

If Baron Ganth has all the masks: If the PCs do not find Ganth in time then Ganth will complete the binding spell and become Xoth. All semblance of Baron Ganth and now destroyed, only Xoth remains at his full previous level. He will bascially ignore the PCs from this point on and continue his plans. If the PCs arrive at the stronghold after the time has expired do not hold Xoth back, but do keep in mind his personality.

If the PCs find Ganth then the time passed will dictate the strength of the Baron's forces at the fortress. If more time has passed more forces will be at the fortress to stop the PCs. Adjust the final location's creatures as the DM sees fit.

If Baron Ganth has all the masks except the Mask of Divination: He will assume that the PCs will still go after him and wait at the stronghold for them. He will send Blackthorn to lead the PCs to the secret stronghold to destroy them, this will be a trap. The longer the PCs take to find Ganth the tougher the final encounter will be as Ganth has time to build up. But if by the 4th week no sign of the PCs are found Ganth will get impatient and pursue the PCs himself. He will not hesistate to kill the PCs if they are found.

Xoth's stronghold was built for the purpose of not being found. Xoth wishes to lead his new empire from Ganth's kingdom but even the best laid plans are prone to the unexpected. The mountain stronghold provides a secondary location in case his plans fail. Nestled in the corner of two mountains lies the outer walls of the stronghold. So far that is all that has been built. There is no gate, no moat, and no guards. Only a single large cave entrance can be seen over 200' away at the base of the mountain.

The caves themselves have high ceilings, 25-30', and nooks from 6″ to 7' in depth and height. These nooks were areas dug out by dwarves for mining pusposes. Usually every 4 squares you can expect 2-3 nooks.

1. Simple Cave: This is a very wide natural cave entrance. The ground is made of dirt and rock and has some grassy growth. A wooden sign is learning up against the left cave entrance written in dwarven "danger excavated". A stale smell comes out of the cave entrance. Upon further inspection (DC 18 tracking) a PC can see that tracks lead in and out of the entrance. The sign was propped up against the cave. In the 20' nook at the back part of this area lies a Monitor Lizard MM 275 3E. She will try to remain hidden covering her nest with 6 eggs. She will not attack unless provoked.

2. Monstrous Mold: The opening at the entrance of area two to the end of the eastern corridor leading to area three is covered in brown mold. Only a 7' wide worn path is cleared in the center of this 190' path. PCs will be hard to detect the mold as they approach the turn leading into this area (DC 23 to spot). If the 1st character misses spotting the mold they will be exposed to one round of its effects. The mold stretches to the ceiling. Any fireball launched into this area will literally have the mold grow to cover the area of the path and cave preventing further movement. In the center of the cavern is a large humanoid shape that is part of the mold.

3. Troll Grounds: In this area there are a lot of scattered boulders (5' to 7' in diameter), bones, and a slight smell of spoiled meat. 7 trolls MM 247 3E inhabit the area. They will use the boulders to hide and ambush the party. If the party makes any noise, casts any spell destroying the mold from area 2 the trolls will be alerted. Several trolls have already lost their lives within the mold, a long torturous death because of their regeneration ability. They have discovered how to not be affected by the brown mold. Since they are cold blooded creature the trolls have learned to hold their breath (not exhaling hot air) while moving carefully down the path to avoid being consumed by the mold in area 2. They will usually feel a chill but the mold does not affect them.

4. Waste: The cave is scattered with unwanted broken mining equipment, broken barrels, broken crates, rag clothing, and other assorted useless items. On the back 40' of the room is a 20' deep pit. Inside there are the bodies of the former workers and bones of other various creatures. The smell increases as the party draws closer to the pit.

5. Troll Grounds: This area is the same as area 3 except the trolls here will not be expecting the characters. There are 9 trolls MM 247 3E dwelling in this cave. The largest troll holds a key made of iron.

6. Dark Waters: The cave is almost filled completely with a dark murky water. The cave gradually declines to a depth of 4 1/2 feet, in its center, then inclines back up to ground level. This occurs over a 60' span of the cave with its center 20' length being mostly 4 1/2 feet deep. The sides of the cave only drop to a depth of 3' deep. Scattered on the sides of the cave, in the middle 20', of the deepest part of the water are lying 12 Bone Reapers. They only attack creatures that come within 25' of them. Thus the 10' center section of the water is safe from attacks by the undead. They are lying down in the water motionless and undetectable except by magical means.

7. Prison: As this cave opens up an iron fence raising 15' from the ground blocks off any movement to the larger section. There is a closed iron door locked by chain and a complicated lock (DC 23 open locks to pick). The top of each prong in the iron fence are shards of twisted metal fused within to prevent escape by prisoners (Climb DC 28, fail 2d6 damage and impale for 1d6 a round till the player is removed from the spikes). Within this prison is dirty straw scattered about and 3 dry bowls. A young man in his 20's is being kept here. He is slightly malnourished but in otherwise good shape. His name is Jared. He was one of the workers assisting to build the stronghold walls. He knows nothing of the rest of the area. He only knows that Ganth killed all the other workers, put him to sleep, and the next thing he knew he awoke here. He is scared and wants to go home but will not leave without the party escorting him. The young man heard the sounds of the trolls and other horrible things in the caverns.

8. The Big Slide: This is a 45 degree slope sliding down into a lower part of the cave. Small plant life grows in this part of the caves. Any druid or ranger will identify it as moss. It has spread on the walls of the cavern and the slope down. The moss is slippery and prevents anyone from climbing back up the slope.

9a and 9b. The Ambush: In each of these large caverns are around 50 niches of about 3' to 7' in diameter each. In each niche appears to be skeletal remains of warriors dressed only in their helmets and some beaten up armor ranging from leather to chainmail. Each figure is seated or balled up in their niche, motionless. In each of 9a and 9b the farthest back niche, which is the largest, is covered by a large circular brass shield. The shield has an insignia of a flaming eye. These shield niches are about 10' from the ground. In the center of each area are three sticks tired together by leather straps forming a tripod. In the tripod is a glass sphere 3″ in diameter emitting light from a continual light spell.

The rooms are a giant trap. if any of the PCs enter the caves within 25' of any niche the bone reapers within will come alive and attack. As soon as one attacks the others all leave their niches and attack. As the reapers attack they will knock over the continual light ball tripod shattering it. This will make the whole area dark. Behind each brass shield is a greater bone reaper. The greater bone reaper will burst out from behind the brass shield letting it clang on the floor. The loud noise will be heard by all the creatures in the cave. Any bone reapers in the water at area 6 will appear in 10 rounds to reinforce the battle. The bone reapers in the opposing cave, 9a or 9b, will reinforce the battle in 3-4 rounds. In 9a there are 12 bones reapers and 2 greater bone reapers, in 9b 14 bone reapers and 2 greater bone reapers. The loud gong from the brass shields should alert the Baron to the PCs presence.

10. The Long Reach: This area is a large 80'x80' square man made room. The cave walls look as if they were dugout and reinforced by dark stone bricks that line all the walls. The room has some small amount of rubble in its center and the floor is covered by stone dust in most spots. On the ceiling is a large circular opening measuring 30' in diameter. The walls of the opening are also reinforced by the same dark stone that covers the walls. The opening goes up around 100'. If the opening is peered into the PCs can see a dim glow at the top from some sort of light source.

11. Xoth's Chambers: The opening reveals a large circular room measuring 40' in diameter, and 20' in height. Tall book shelves line the southern half of the area. The shelves are filled with books of all sorts from magic to history. A large summoning circle is in the north end of the room and a few scattered pieces of furniture. Apparently the opening continues upward but it is blocked by a giant wooden plug flush with the ceiling. The plug is being held in place by a wooden beam measuring 40' across. The large wooden beam is about 1 foot in width and bolted to the ceiling by two metal clamps. Any dwarf or character with knowledge of construction knows that the plug needs more support to ensure it will not break the beam. In the south portion of the room there is a section blocked off by shelves. Here is where the Baron sleeps. There is a 1' diameter circular tunnel in the south wall that leads to up outside to a cliff on the side of the mountain.

The Baron will not have any guardians within the chamber, he created the Bone Reapers but still feels uncomfortable around them. If he knows the PCs are coming he will wait till they are up the center of the shaft and then use the mask's spells to smash the wooden beam holding the wooden plug. This force the beam to break collapsing 2 tons of lose stone, being held up by the plug above, down upon the PCs (DC 30 Reflex, every point below 30 a PC misses the save they take 1d6 damage from falling rocks, a natural 1 kills that PC). The rocks will fill up the opening in area 10 entirely. The PCs have 1 round to act before the beam gives and the rocks fall.

The Baron will always have a vial of gaseous form on his person for escape. If he feels he is losing a battle he will consume the vial's contents and escape up the 1' tunnel in gas form.

The Baron will use the Masks to stop the PC. Xoth will realize the situation and with the proximity of the last mask he will have some ability to activate 2-3 of them at once by his own will. The Baron will have several different types of protection spells and ability enhancement spells on to protect him from damage. Use the spells within the masks to summon monsters and cast spells on opponents in an attempt to kill the PCs. Use a casting level of a 7th level wizard for Xoth's will over the masks. The mask will continue to cast spells 2 rounds after the Baron is dead in an attempt to kill the intruders. After that they will stop functioning since they rely on a live wearer. The PCs may then take the masks and give them to Charilus to destroy.

If the Baron has all the masks but he has not completed the binding ritual then consider all the masks to be able to cast and as a 12th level wizard. The Baron will have many defensive spells up all the time. Since the Baron himself is weak the spells will make up for this.

Cliff Ledge: This cliff is over 500' above the base of the mountain. There is no way to climb up to the cliff but one can get down. There is a small 1' tunnel that has been magically dug using spells that leads to the south end of area 11. The Baron has placed here a small chest containing climbing equipment. In the chest is also a Horn of Blasting DMG 259. If the Baron escapes through the tunnel he will use the Horn of Blasting to collapse the whole tunnel passage and trap the PCs, blowing right down the shaft. Then he will use the climbing gear or masks to escape.

The Baron within the Stronghold: As a DM you must determine if Baron Ganth is aware or not aware of the PCs presence.

The Baron is totally unaware: The PCs make it to the stronghold within 10 days without Blackthorn's help and avoid the area 9 trap then it is possible for the PCs to make it to area 11 undetected unless they make a lot of noise. Within the 1st week no additional forces will be at the stronghold. Read the stronghold text as is. This situation is also possible if the Baron has all the masks but has not done the ritual because the proper date has not arrived. He will ignore everything else being consumed from having all the masks. He will test them, use them, and be preparing for the ritual. He will summon no troops to the location. The stronghold will remain in its same status, unfinished.

The Baron is expecting them: If Blackthorn led them to the area, or the it is day 11 -14 and the PCs have the Mask of Divination the Baron will be prepared. Near the end of 2 weeks he will be expecting them because it will be close to the ritual. All the trolls will be on alert for the PCs arrival. The Baron will have dugout a 15'x3' area along the north wall of area 11 to view what is going on below. The opening will be covered by a permanent illusion of rock, created by Ganth and the Mask of Illusion. Only he is aware of this. 10 soldiers will be stationed outside. One soldier will have a horn and blow it if any trouble occurs so others will be alerted to the danger present. There is a gate on the outside walls, one small 10' tent for supply storage, and several other tents for the soldiers. A 30' tent has also been erected for the Baron to accept visitors. It is stylishly furnished.

1 Commander, 9 soldiers
Commander: Ftr4: CR 4; Size M; HD 4d10+8; hp 28; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; AC 15; Attack +7 melee, or +4 ranged; (long sword 1d8+4, dagger 1d4+2) SV Fort +7, Ref +1, Will +1; AL NE; Str 15, Dex 11, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 10.

Skills and Feats: Intuit direction +1, Spot 0, Swim +3; Improved initiative, 2 Weapon, Ambidex, Weapon Spec (long sword), Weapon Focus (long sword).

EQ: chainmail, longsword, dagger.

Soldiers: Human Ftr2: CR 2; Size M (6 ft., 3 in. tall); HD 2d10; hp 13; Init +1 (+1 Dex); Spd 30 ft.; AC 11 (+1 Dex); Attack +3 melee, or +3 ranged; SV Fort +3, Ref +1, Will +0; AL N; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 6.

Skills and Feats: Heal +1, Hide +3, Listen +0, Move silently +1, Spot +0, Tumble +2, Wilderness lore +2; Blind-fight, Combat reflexes, Power attack, Quick draw.

EQ: chainmail, longsword, medium shield.

Week 3 and beyond the Baron will be prepared for any visitors: 3 wooden buildings will now be present and under construction along the west and east sides within the stronghold walls. A moat will have been excavated and filled with spikes and an almost difficult ledge facing the stronghold walls (DC 30 climb check). The base of the stronghold is currently being created near the rear of the mountain. Now there will be 4 commanders and 46 soldiers. Also remember at this point the Baron is looking for the PCs.

The end story for the Masks of Destiny I gave are only possible ones. There are several ways a DM can handle the climax to conclude the campaign, leave the campaign in a mystery, or continue it in another form. Here are some other endings that are possible.

1. Make Baron Ganth impossible to kill while he holds all/most of the masks. Because of this Xoth's power over him is too great and the magic of the masks too powerful. Charilus will realize this and advise the PCs. The only chance the PCs have is right after the ritual is complete and Xoth becomes whole. The masks will become non-magical and drop all spells on the Baron's body. Xoth will become whole taking over the Baron's body and consume the magic of the masks giving him some spell abilities. Xoth will be vulnerable to attack. Still play Xoth intelligently and his goal now is to escape. How many spells he has memorized is up to the DM. I suggest using a modest amount of spells memorized, enough to put up a fight and escape.

2. The PCs fail to arrive before the binding ritual is complete and Xoth is whole. Xoth has not had enough time to fully rest and has only up to 6th level spells. Enhance the chamber with bone reapers for a good final combat. If the PCs are unaware of the Mask of Alteration's phylactery gem then when Xoth is defeated his soul will retreat into the gem, treat as a magic jar. Xoth will then later take over the body of the prisoner in area 7 and leave on his own quietly.

3. The PCs defeat the Baron and collect the masks. Charilus was wrong in that a binding spell was needed to release Xoth. Only all the masks present in one person's hands would release his life force into the world of the living. The masks will become non-magical overnight. Xoth would then attempt to take over the weakest mind until he could safely get away, the prisoner in area 7. This control will take several hours and during a time of rest.

4. With the masks all in the same room, Xoth is able to use the mask's power and form his life force into the phylactery gem of the Mask of Alteration in the middle of combat with the Baron. He will then take over a being later, such as the prisoner in area 7. Treat the phylactery gem as magic jar.

5. Let the Baron complete the binding ritual and Xoth gets away in a good final combat. This will open up the door for a high level campaign later down the road.

I hope you enjoyed the Mask Campaign as much as Steve and myself have enjoyed writing it. It was very difficult to come up with an ending for this campaign so we decided to show all the endings we thought of. This way the DM has flexability in what happens. This allows for the possibility of the PCs failing and a not so happy ending. Most likely the battle with the Baron will be the standard ending for the campaign. Of the alternative endings I mentioned above I feel #2 is my personal favorite. It allows the good final fight and Xoth to get away for a 2nd high level campaign. If you can manage to do that ending I would suggest it. It will be gratifying to the PCs to win, after such a long struggle, and yet shocking when they discover the truth… that Xoth got away.

We are not sure if we will be doing more campaigns as a lot of thought and time went into this one. I will soon convert this to a PDF format for download. Any questions or errors please email me.

The End