The players leave the town of Harken after an odd visit. They set out east toward the Goblin's Hold Mountains. This might be a good time to have the players stop by and see old friends in familiar places as the town of King's reach.

Since this is a long trip several side adventures might be appropriate it. Eventually the players will reach Jewel a frontier town near the edge of the mountain range.

Here they will want to resupply and find any information on the mountains that they can. The players will see what little there is of the small town as they enter it. They will shortly find themselves at the Inn/Tavern The Jeweled Goblet. They will be given a typical small town welcome (shunned and ignored by most) and will notice that besides the typical frontier trapper that a few (5) goblins MM 107 3E are among the patrons.

In speaking with the locals they will hear rumors of goblin tribes on the war path and raiding bands of giants. Players receive several warnings that the rainy season is in mid-swing, they can expect heavy storms that can cause mudslides and strong winds. Sure enough as evening arrives a heavy rain begins. The stable boy will come running into the tavern about 8 PM to say that the players horses have become spooked by the rain and 1 has run off. The innkeeper, Oscar, will have the stable boy and his brother, the dishwasher, assist the player in getting his horse back. The animal will be found a few hundred yards away from the tavern.

Those who go out after the horse will be soaked to the skin within 5 minutes. The horse will be in good condition, however on the way back some lightning will spook it again. Call for a handle animal roll or the players will have to chase it down again. As they eventually get the horse under control and head back they will notice one of the goblins from the inn standing out in the rain and watching them. Once he has been spotted and the characters look his way he will grin widely at them and walk off. The goblin is actually just drunk and out here relieving himself, but do not let the PCs know that.

Back inside the innkeeper's wife, Sarah, will fuss over the party to put the wet boots and such by the fire. Towels will be brought, and warm ale served to take away the chill. No more excitement occurs but the rain and wind picks up to a heavy pace. A few of the locals throw blankets by the fire rather than walk home in such foul weather. Eventually, the party heads off to their rooms for sleep. The howling wind keeps a few awake but the sound of rain outside instead of inside makes for comforting thoughts and they soon drift off.

The party are all safe and sound in their warm little beds, while outside the a fierce storm is brewing.

All is well until, one of the players is awakened by the sound of his door being broken in. A goblin stumbles into the room, his eyes wild, covered in blood, and armed with a dagger as he lunges at the PC!

Ask for the players action, remembering that he is surprised and whatever is to be done must be only a few seconds in length. If he attempts to kill the goblin he succeeds easily, if he attempts to stop him or dodge the attack the goblin collapses and dies.

A few seconds later a woman's repeated cries sound through the inn, waking everyone. Some will stop to see the dead goblin in the players room, others will head to the source of the screams to find the Sarah screaming that her babies are gone.

The goblins will be immediately suspected and several of the locals will want to kill them immediately. Only Oscar's need to find where his children have been taken will keep the 4 remaining goblins alive.

A thorough search will take place but the only clues will be an open window in the children's room and the dead goblin, who has deep claw marks besides any wounds the PCs inflicted. No wet footprints or other marks are left behind unless they check outside. Those who check outside will discover tracks, LARGE ones. Only 1 set and they appear to be clawed. A discussion will quickly take place, the tracks must be followed because the pounding rain will soon sweep them away. None of the local trappers and farmers want to go fighting some awful beasty in the middle of the night however.

Oscar will beg for someone to help him, offering whatever rewards he can think of, he will then appeal to individuals by name begging for any help. The locals will be ashamed but are too frightened to go. Hopefully the party volunteers to search for the missing kids. If this happens Oscar will thank them profusely and embarrassingly. After a few seconds of hushed debate 2 of the goblins offer to go also. They wish to avenge the killing of their leader, and collect a possible reward. If the party discourages them they will wait then follow at a distance. They will mention that they are skilled trackers if none are in the party.

Whatever decision is reached with the goblins, they will either accompany the party or follow them but have no reason to betray them. They will fight but will not sacrifice their lives. They will use range weapons when inside the caves, preferring to stay under cover and snipe from safe positions.

After getting equipped the party sets out into the howling rain. The first problem to come up will be light, no torches or lanterns can stand this storm. Even a hooded lantern will not last long. Likely magical light sources will have to be used and even then the wind is so strong that the rain seems to be falling sideways forcing visibility down to a few feet.

As the PCs follow the tracks the ground is turning to mud, which will then flood. Who ever is tracking will have to go slowly and will be unable to ride so as to keep the tracks in sight. Horses will be difficult to keep under control, the lightning continues unabated, the storm is howling and the rain is coming hard. The party will be traveling in a circle of magical light but only able to see a few feet. Meantime the ground turns to ever deepening mud. After half an hour large hail is added to the rain, making the trip painful as well. The tracks lead the players to a creek bed, now swollen and overflowing. Who ever is tracking will be able to tell that the tracks entered the stream but can not tell if they exited without crossing over.

The fast moving creek is now over 9 feet deep at its center. Those using horses to cross must make riding rolls. Those without horses, the goblins have ponies, must come up with a plan to cross as the river is too fast and cluttered to simply swim over, allow whatever plan is decided on to succeed if reasonable. Once they get across the tracker is able to find the tracks again after a few minutes along with a torn bit of clothing caught on a tree from one of the children.

The players have crossed the swollen stream and just found a piece of torn clothing belonging to one of the missing children.

Call for listen rolls DC:25 (2E INT -4). If no one makes it they notice the trail enters a large pool/puddle and disappears. Then call for another listen check but at DC:20 now (2E INT -2).

When someone makes it tell them that "The wind carries the sound of a child's mournful cry." With some effort they can listen for the direction and barely make out it comes from the northwest. When they head that way they come across the male child Daniel sitting in the mud next to a huge old tree crying hysterically, he is unable to even move due to the strong winds that buffet him . When he sees the PC's light he calls out "mommy" hoping it is her.

As the party goes to help him out of the mud hole, something large drops out of the huge tree onto one of the party members, automatic surprise round. It is a Girallon HP 52 MM 104 3E. It will attempt to kill everyone since they are so close to its lair. It will not retreat but will become berserk if its hit points go below 50%. Berserk mean the beast gets +4 to STR and CON.

Note: The weather is so bad that missile weapons will be impossible and even spells have a 25% chance of failing due to difficulty of concentration. Anyone covered in mud from any earlier falls or knocked down in this fight must make a DEX roll (DC 10) to get back up.

Once the Girallon is dead Daniel can be questioned by the party. He is barely coherent, he states that a different one took his sister, a bigger one. If asked Daniel will state that the creature that attacked him was a Bogeyman. It dropped him here a few minutes ago and he has been trying to get out of the mud since then.

The characters are now in a quandary, they cannot go back to the village with only Daniel, and sending one person back with Daniel may be impossible due to the river and poor visibility. They will have to bring him along and of course protect him, hindering them even further. Daniel points northward to show the direction the creature took his sister. Sure enough a set of footprints continues on that way. After a hundred yards or so the players can see the entrance to a cave, half submerged by the rising flood waters.

The players are approaching a cave where little Jenny, the daughter of the innkeeper Oscar, has been taken by a large Girallon.

As the wind and rain howl around them the players can see a cave opening. Unfortunately the cave was in the bottom of a gully and the opening is only a 2 feet high with the other 4 feet being under water. The entrance is also choked with mud, sticks, and other debris. It seems that the steady rain is filling up the gully, if it keeps up the whole thing will be under water before morning. The players will have to clear out the entrance as best they can and enter singly. Shorter characters will be forced to swim in or at least pull themselves along while under water.

Once they get inside they can see they are in an earthen tunnel about 5' high and 4' wide. However it is filled with water to a height of 3 feet and rising! The party will find a small doll stuck in the debris clogging the entrance.

Heading inward, they will see the tunnel goes about 15 feet. It comes to a T intersection but the left passage has collapsed and water is flowing freely inside. To the right the tunnel continues for another 12 feet but stops as the base of a large tree blocks the way through. With some searching they can see that the passage continued around the tree but the collapsing mud walls make progress difficult. After a little work they can dig through the mud or even try going under but they will have to dig a little that way also. When they finally get some space next to the tree, they hear little Jenny's voice yelling "NO" at someone then crying.

The party will have to make DEX checks at DC:15, DC:12 for small size, for characters to get through the small space, each check takes 1 round.(2E DEX rolls at -6/-4). Once some of them get through, they can see the tunnel drops about down to a 40 degree angle. With the water rushing in and the dirt walls collapsing the first person to go in will fall and it becomes a slide. If they hesitate you can have the tree start to come loose and crush/drown them if they do not go.

Those who go sliding will only slide for a few feet before hitting open air. They fall another 15 feet or so into a large pool. The pool is about 5 feet deep, with a muddy bottom of about 2 feet. As they surface they will hear a roar and see a Girallon MM 105 3E holding Jenny. This creature is obviously female, she roars defiance at the party from a ledge about 6 feet out of the water. It appears Jenny and the female creature are trapped on the ledge due to the rising waters. As the players are deciding how to get to the creature without harming Jenny, the original kidnapper which is a HUGE male Girallon breaks the surface of the water (Hide +20 for the Girallon) and attacks any characters in the pool. The huge male was temporarily trapped in another tunnel which is now in the bottom of the pool.

Huge Size Girallon, add the following: HD 11+2d10 (HP 68), claw 1d6+10, bite 1d10+5, reach 10', rend 2d6+15, Fort +8, Ref +9, Will +4, Str 30, Dex 18, Con 18, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 7, Climb +18, Move Silent +10, Spot +8

The characters must now fight the large male, the female will rush to its aid one round later knocking Jenny off the side of the ledge but clinging to the edge. Jenny of course can't swim.

Two rounds after this a roaring noise fills the cavern, as the water in the overflowing gully finally forces open the lair. One round later tons of water come from the tunnel opening to rain down on the characters and the Girallons. Anyone not on the ledge must make DEX checks at DC:20 (2E DEX -10) or be swept away. The cavern roof also gives away under this tremendous pressure showering the group with debris and more water.

All those who have been swept away will go under water for 2 rounds (check your drowning rules) but then will be shot out into the creek/river, taking 2d6 points of damage in the process. If for some reason Jenny and Daniel are forced to undergo this because the players did not protect them well, go easy and assign them the minimum 2 points….this time. Unless the party has healers at hand and can take care of the matter quickly.

Everyone swept into the river must make a swim check (DC 12) (2E STR -2 or swim) to pull themselves to a random side of the river. Those failing the check will be swept away but may be able to make checks every few rounds unless they can't swim or are wearing very heavy armor in which case they begin drowning at your discretion. The Girallon will make their checks of course and end up on whatever side you wish. They will try to continue the fight if possible but will flee if obviously
beaten.

Afterwards the party must still locate any characters still in the river or perhaps trapped in the crumbling lair. Then they must make their way back to Jewel with the frightened, and bruised children in tow.

The party makes its way back to Jewel, little Jenny and Daniel in tow. They are wet, damaged, half drowned, covered in mud but they have accomplished their mission. As they drag themselves back into the "Jeweled Goblet" they will be nearly overcome with weariness but Oscar, his family, and many of the locals have anxiously awaited their return. The innkeeper is of course overjoyed and embarrassingly thanks the party at length for saving his children. He even thanks the goblins if they survived.

He pays out any reward he has offered, he doesn't have much to give but gives it willingly and arranges for fresh clothing for the party. He fusses over them for as long as needed before sending them up to bed. In the morning he thanks his saviors all over again. Fawning over them till they leave town. He will of course allow them to pay or want for nothing.

Their clothes will be cleaned and hot baths drawn at their slightest urge. Little Jenny will present one of the PC's, whichever male helped to calm her the most, with a leather charm (an simple leather cord necklace with a sun emblem on it) her mother made for her. She tells the PC that it will bring him good luck any time the sun shines on it. It doesn't do anything of course, unless you decide it does.

After a few days the rain lets up and the characters can continue their journey. No one in town can really help them but Oscar mentions that a clan of dwarves supposedly reside somewhere in the mountains and perhaps they will help.

